AND FOR ONE P.M. I WANT
TO THANK EVERYONE FOR JOINING
US THIS AFTERNOON AND I JUST
WANT TO LET EVERYBODY KNOW THAT
THIS MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST
ON CABLE CHANNEL 16 AND AT
CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND ONLINE
AT EIGHT TO GO AGAIN WATCH CTM
AND OF COURSE IF THERE ANYONE
TODAY THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT, PLEASE FEEL
FREE TO CALL THE NUMBER TOLL
FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN
OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN
EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
AND ENTER THE MEANING ID NINE
ONE NINE EIGHT SIX SEVEN THREE
ONE FOUR FIVE.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I WOULD
LIKE TO START WITH ROLL CALL
TODAY SO I'D LIKE TO GO AROUND
AND DO ROLL CALL SO IF WE COULD
START WITH COMMISSIONER OZARK
AND THEN KENNEDY IF YOU WANT TO
JUST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS SO
THAT THEY CAN UNU AND INTRODUCE
THEMSELVES AND LET US KNOW
WHERE THEY'RE COMING FROM
TODAY, THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
I'M COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN
MOSAICA AND I'M CALLING IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
GOOD TO SEE YOU, KATHLEEN.
ALREADY.
>> NEXT WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON MATTHEW SOLOMON
COMMISSIONER CALLING IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
US TO SEE YOU COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON.
NEXT WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS.
>> OK, NEXT WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER POSTER OK.
NEXT WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE.
>> I'M SORRY IF I'M PRONOUNCING
THAT WRONG, ALEX.
OK, THAT'S GOOD.
NO WORRIES.
THIS IS COMMISSIONER ALEX
GOSSAGE CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
OK, NEXT WE HAVE COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EVERYONE THIS IS COUNCIL
MEMBER AISHA GHAZI EDWYN
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
AND THEN NEXT WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE.
EVERYONE DOESN'T NEED TO
RADCLYFFE CALLING IN FROM IN
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
NICE TO SEE YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE ISTER COUILLARD
THIS LIGHTHILL DEALER LYCEUS
VICE CHAIRMAN LARRY KEYLA
CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN IS THE VICE CHAIR AND
WE HAVE TO THANK THEM.
>> THANK YOU.
YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
THIS IS ZACH DAMON, CHAIRMAN
GOING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH EVERYBODY
FOR THAT ROLL CALL.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO JUST OPEN IT
UP FOR A BRIEF THREE MINUTE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
DO WE KNOW KENNEDY DO WE HAVE
ANYBODY ON AT THE MOMENT FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT?
I'M GOING TO STOP SHARING MY
SCREEN JUST DOUBLE CHECK AT
THIS TIME IT LOOKS LIKE WE DO
NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
NEXT I WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE
APPROVAL OF TODAY'S AGENDA.
ALL OF YOU SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED
A DIGITAL COPY OF TODAY'S
AGENDA WITH ALL OF THE
INFORMATION INCLUDED IF YOU
HAVE NOT.
PLEASE LET WHEN WE CAN GET YOU
A COPY NOW.
BUT IF THERE ARE NO MORE
COMMENTS ON YOUR AGENDA, I
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
APPROVE TODAY'S AGENDA.
I MUST APPROVE ANY MOVES TO
APPROVE.
>> IS THERE A SECOND?
I WILL SECOND THIS KATHLEEN.
>> THANK YOU KATHLEEN.
KATHLEEN SECOND, I'M ALL IN
FAVOR OF APPROVING TODAY'S
AGENDA PLEASE UNCUTE AND SAY
HI.
>> HI.
ALL RIGHT.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES BOTH
FROM ACTUALLY JUST FROM JUNE.
PARDON ME.
SO I DIDN'T I JUST WANTED TO
GIVE A MOMENT IF ANYONE HAD ANY
COMMENTS OR ADDITIONS OR EDITS
TO THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
JUNE AND IF NOT IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MEET THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM JUNE
?
OH OK.
ROSNY ROSARITA YEAH OK I'LL
SECOND ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE MEETING
MINUTES FROM THE JUNE TWENTY
FIRST COMMISSION MEETING PLEASE
ON MUTE AND SAY AY AY AY AY AY
AY OK WONDERFUL THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THE MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED NEXT WE COME TO THE
VERY AWESOME PART OF OUR AGENDA
HERE.
SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO ANNOUNCE
TO THE FULL COMMISSION THAT WE
HAVE A COUPLE OF CANDIDATES
TODAY THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
THEIR INTRODUCTION.
I WANT TO LET THE FULL
COMMISSION KNOW THAT THEIR
APPLICATIONS WERE RECEIVED AND
THEY HAVE BEEN REVIEWED AND AND
THEY WERE INTERVIEWED BY LARRY.
OUR RECRUITMENT SPECIALIST TO
ENSURE THAT THEY ARE QUALIFIED
AND MET THE COMMITMENT ASPECTS
OF OUR COMMISSION.
SO WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE THE TWO CANDIDATES
AND I WILL HAVE THEM GO I WILL
HAVE MISS CHAMBERS GO FIRST FOR
HER INTRODUCTION AND THEN WE'LL
HAVE THE SECOND CANDIDATE, MR.
PACKARD SECOND.
SO WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE COMMISSION CANDIDATE
ALANNAH CHAMBERS.
HELLO.
IT'S GREAT TO BE HERE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR INVITING
ME TO THE MEETING TODAY.
MY NAME IS ELENA CHAMBERS.
I AM REALLY EXCITED TO BE HERE.
I AM A CURRENT STUDENT IN THE
MASTERS OF SOCIAL WORK PROGRAM
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I HAVE DONE A LOT OF DISABILITY
ADVOCACY ESPECIALLY WITH YOU
KNOW, I HAVE A PODCAST ABOUT
DISABILITY ISSUES.
I'VE DONE SOME ONLINE SOCIAL
MEDIA TYPE ADVOCACY.
I HAVE SPOKEN AT SOME
DISABILITY RELATED CONFERENCES
AND I AM JUST REALLY EXCITED TO
TO FOR THE CHANCE TO
POTENTIALLY BE ABLE TO HELP IN
MY COMMUNITY.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR MY
WHOLE LIFE AND I AM VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT HELPING OTHER
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES LIKE
MYSELF WHO LIVE IN THE AREA AS
WELL.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
CANDIDATE CHAMBERS, VERY
EXCITED TO HAVE YOU.
THANK ON NEXT I'D LIKE TO HAVE
THE INTRODUCTION OF CANDIDATE
MR. ROB PACKARD
.
ROB, I THINK YOU'RE STILL ON
MUTE, SIR.
THERE WE GO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
BE A PART OF THIS GROUP VERY
MUCH HONORED TO BE HERE TODAY.
I AM A REPORTER, PHOTOGRAPHER,
PEDIATRIC NURSE WHO IN THE
MIDST OF THE PANDEMIC HERE
WORKING AT OF HOSPITAL LOST
MOST OF MY VISION AND BECAME
LEGALLY BLIND AND SO I HAVE
EXPERIENCED KIND OF BOTH SIDES
OF LIFE AND SCENARIO KIND
OF WANT TO GO THROUGH TO GIVE
YOU A PERSPECTIVE, IMAGINE IF
YOU'RE IN YOUR APARTMENT LIKE I
AM RIGHT NOW AND ALL THE LIGHTS
WENT OUT AND EVERYTHING WENT
DARK AND YOUR KEYS HAVE
VANISHED.
YOUR CAR'S GONE AND SO IT'S
LIKE WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO
WITH LIFE?
YOU COULD STAY INSIDE, STAY IN
THE DARK OR IF YOU GO OUTSIDE
AND YOU KNOW, SEE WHAT'S OUT
THERE AND THAT'S KIND OF WHAT I
HAVE DONE IN THE LAST FEW YEARS
.
YOU GO OUTSIDE AND YOU FIND
WHAT ELSE WHAT OPPORTUNITIES
AWAIT AND I AFTER LOSING MY
VISION AS A PEDIATRIC NURSE AT
MIT, I TOOK SOME TIME TO, YOU
KNOW, ASSESS MY SITUATION AND
THEN I WENT TO THE STATE BUREAU
OF SERVICES FOR BLIND PERSONS
AND STARTED RELEARNING MY
SKILLS AND AND THEN I WOUND UP
GETTING A PLACE HERE IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND NOW I
HAVE AN APARTMENT HERE.
I USED THE TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM AND I STILL USE THE
MEDIA HERE.
I HAVE CONNECTIONS AND HEALTH
CARE WITHIN THE HOSPITAL SYSTEM
AND I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO USE
THIS AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO HELP
OTHERS LIKE YOU ALL HAVE HELPED
ME.
IT WAS THE FACT THAT I VENTURED
OUT OF MY HOUSE AND MET YOU
ZACH AT THE LOW VISION EXPO AT
THE LIBRARY AND THERE ARE SO
MANY WAYS THAT I THINK WE CAN
MAKE THE CITY A BETTER PLACE
AND I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO THAT
BECAUSE I THINK WE'RE ALL HERE
BECAUSE THAT'S OUR ATTITUDE IS
WE SEE POTENTIAL INOPPORTUNE
AND THE BEST AND OTHERS AND
THAT'S WHAT WE SHOULD SURROUND
OURSELVES WITH AND THAT'S WHAT
I LOOK FORWARD TO DOING WITH
YOU AND YOUR ORGANIZATION
REALLY DO APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
CANDIDATE PACKARD AND YOU KNOW
FOR ALL OF YOUR WORDS AND YES,
IT WAS A PLEASURE MEETING YOU
AT VISIONS THIS PAST YEAR AND
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION.
WE APPRECIATE YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
AND RECRUITMENT LARRY KEELER I
DIDN'T KNOW DID YOU JUST HAVE
ANY OTHER THINGS YOU WANTED TO
SAY ABOUT THESE PARTICULAR
CANDIDATES ABOUT THE PROCESS
OF WHICH YOU WENT ABOUT
REVIEWING AND INTERVIEWING
ANYTHING
WHERE YOU'RE ON MUTE
IF YOU ARE TALKING I KNOW I'LL
ADDRESS THAT DURING THE
WHITEBOARD WHERE WE'RE GOOD.
>> OK, SOUNDS THANK YOU
ZACH.
YOUR MUTED OF COURSE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
OF OUR AGENDA.
I'M VERY EXCITED TO INTRODUCE A
WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL COMPANY
THAT IS DOING GREAT THINGS NOT
ONLY IN OUR COMMUNITY BUT ALSO
I THINK FOR THE HEALTH CARE
INDUSTRY AS A WHOLE IN OFFERING
COLLEGE STUDENTS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO GAIN GREAT EXPERIENCE IN THE
HEALTH HEALTH CARE FIELD BUT
ALSO YOU GET PAID TO DO SO AT
THE SAME TIME.
SO WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE A SASH AND KARIA.
HEY, THANKS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THANKS FOR SUCH
A KIND INTRODUCTION.
SO YES, I'M THE CEO AND
CO-FOUNDER OF KOREI HEALTH
TECHNOLOGIES AND ACTUALLY TOOK
SOME TIME TO PREPARE
PRESENTATION FOR YOU.
CHECK IN, WALK THROUGH
NEIGHBORHOODS TO SHARE THE
SCREEN.
OK, CAN YOU GO SEE IT?
>> I SURE CAN.
THAT'S OK.
GREAT YEAH.
SO SO WE ACTUALLY FOUNDED WE
ARE A GRASSROOTS ORGANIZATION
THAT WE BUILT OUT OF OUR HOME
BASE IN THE DURHAM RESEARCH
TRIANGLE PARK AREA OF NORTH
CAROLINA AT UNC CHAPEL HILL AND
DUKE UNIVERSITY AND NOW WE'RE
EXPANDING TO SEVERAL
UNIVERSITIES AROUND THE COUNTRY
AND WE JUST RECENTLY EXPANDED
TO UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
ARE ABLE TO BRING CAREER
SERVICES TO THE ANN ARBOR METRO
AREA.
SO IT'S A SOCIAL ENTERPRISE
THAT IS VERY FAST AND REALLY
INNOVATIONS TO TACKLE THE
CAREGIVER SHORTAGES THAT WE'RE
SEEING IN SOCIETY AND ADVANCED
CARE EQUITY AND ACCESS TO
AFFORDABLE CARE FOR ALL.
WE ACTUALLY WANTED TO PICK A
NAME THAT WAS LIKE POSITIVE AND
UPLIFTING.
SO WE PICKED THE NAME WHICH HAS
MULTIPLE MEETINGS INCLUDING
GRANDMOTHER AND GREEK.
IT MEANS CAREGIVER IN SWAHILI
AND THAI AND REALLY WE THOUGHT
SANFORD, YOU ARE YOUR ADVOCATE.
>> THE FUTURE OF SELF DIRECTED
CARE.
YOU TALK ABOUT KIND OF THE
MEDIA AND THE SOCIETY OVERALL
THERE'S OVER FIFTY THREE
MILLION AMERICANS CARING FOR
SOMEBODY WHO NEEDS HELP EITHER
AN AGING SPOUSE WITH
DISABILITIES OR SERIOUS ILLNESS
OR A CHILD WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.
I FOUND MYSELF ACTUALLY IN
STARTING THE ORGANIZATION I
FOUND MYSELF IN SUDDENLY IN TWO
OF THOSE SITUATIONS IN MY MID
THIRTIES ACTUALLY INCLUDING FOR
MY WIFE WHO ACTUALLY WENT TO
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
FAMILIES FROM ANN ARBOR AND
THROUGH SERIOUS ILLNESS AND ICU
HOSPITALIZATIONS, MEDICAL COMA
ETC. WHILE I WAS A PRIMARY
CAREGIVER I WAS FULL TIME
WORKING AND THAT WAS RIGHT ON
THE HEELS OF TAKING MY
GRANDFATHER THROUGH SEVERAL
HEALTH CHALLENGES NEAR THE END
OF HIS LIFE AND I BASICALLY
REALIZED LIKE THERE WAS A
STRUCTURAL BREAK IN THE CAR
INDUSTRY AND PEOPLE JUST NEEDED
BETTER SOLUTIONS.
SO WE CREATED A SOLUTION THAT
LETS PEOPLE BOOK GREAT
CAREGIVERS QUICKLY ONLINE AND
HALF OF THE PRICE OF THE
TRADITIONAL INDUSTRY OPTIONS TO
EXPAND ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE
CARE.
AND OUR MISSION IS TO EMPOWER
FAMILIES AND CAREGIVERS QUICKLY
AS IT SPREADS AROUND THE
COUNTRY TO QUICKLY GET A
BACKGROUND INTERDISCIPLINARY
TEAM.
PRIOR TO THIS I WAS ACTUALLY
RUNNING AN INVESTMENT FUND
FOCUSING ON HEALTH CARE AND
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS.
MY COLLEAGUE GARY CAME FROM THE
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT BACKGROUND
AND THEN OUR CHIEF MEDICAL
ADVISOR DR. CASTRO WHO RUNS
CHIEF OF QUALITY OF CARE AT
DUKE.
AND THEN WE HAVE A GROWING TEAM
NOW ROXIE MACKEY AND THE RUNNER
RUNNING COMMUNICATIONS, PRODUCT
DESIGN AND OUTREACH.
WE'RE ALSO BACKED BY STRATEGIC
ADVISORS ACROSS HEALTH
INSURANCE PLANS, HEALTH CARE
TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVES AND
PUBLIC HEALTH LEADERS INCLUDING
THE RETIRED CHIEF CROSS BLUE
SHIELD OF NORTH CAROLINA
GRETCHEN DOCTOR LINDA
ROSENSTOCK IS THE DEAN EMERITUS
OF THE UCLA SCHOOL OF PUBLIC
HEALTH AND THEN MARK ZHANG,
CHAIRMAN OF A LARGE TELEHEALTH
COMPANY AS WELL AS SEVERAL
OTHERS ACROSS THE HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM WHO ARE FUNDING OUR
MISSION SO WE CAN KIND OF KEEP
IT FREE AND BASICALLY THIS IS
THE PROBLEM WE'RE TRYING TO
SOLVE AT SCALE WHEN PEOPLE NEED
CARE HELP THEY THERE FACE A
CHOICE OF OVERPAY THROUGH THE
CURRENT CARE INDUSTRY OR DO IT
YOURSELF AND I CAN GO AT LENGTH
ABOUT I THINK THE CURRENT CARE
INDUSTRY IS BROKEN BUT
GENERALLY SPEAKING CARRIERS ARE
LOCALIZED CARE AGENCIES WHICH
THE BUSINESS MODEL IS CHARGED
THIRTY DOLLARS AN HOUR PLUS THE
FAMILIES NEED CARE HELP REQUIRE
CONTRACTS A MINIMUM OF 20 HOURS
A WEEK MINIMUM TYPICALLY WE
FIND IN MOST AREAS AND THEN
TURN AROUND PAY THE CAREGIVERS
ELEVEN OR TWELVE DOLLARS AN
HOUR SO A LOT OF THE MONEY GOES
TO KIND OF ADMINISTRATIVE
COSTS, OVERHEAD PROFITS, SALES
AND MARKETING.
SO YOU END UP KIND OF WITH A
POOR USER EXPERIENCE ON BOTH
SIDES.
THE FAMILIES PAY A LOT AND IT
PRICES OUT EIGHTY FIVE TO 90
PERCENT OF FAMILIES WITH THE
HELP OR JUST EVEN INDIVIDUALS
THAT NEED HELP.
WE OBSERVE THAT FROM A LOT
OF PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH AND
THEN THE CAREGIVERS DON'T GET
PAID MUCH.
SO AS A RESULT CAREGIVER THAT
CAN DO LITERALLY ANYTHING ELSE
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A JOB AT
ANY RETAIL STORE WALMART,
MCDONALD'S ETC. SO EVEN PEOPLE
WHO ARE VERY KIND AND WANT TO
BE IN THE CARING FIELD JUST
CANNOT HANDLE THE LOW WAGES AND
MANY OF THEM JUST NEED DON'T
COME SO YOU END UP WITH THOSE
RESULTS WHERE YOU HAVE A VERY
MIXED QUALITY CARE EXPERIENCE A
LOT OF DELAYS, NO SHOWS AND
JUST KIND OF LIKE A TOUGH
SITUATION ALL AROUND OR I'D SAY
THE 90 PERCENT OF PEOPLE CAN'T
INTERACT WITH THIS INDUSTRY,
WASTE A LOT OF TIME FINDING
THEMSELVES.
PEOPLE ASK FRIENDS, NEIGHBORS,
SOMEONE A CHURCH, OTHER
RELIGIOUS GROUPS YOU CAN GO TO
CARE DOT COM AND MANUALLY SEND
A BUNCH OF MESSAGES AND YOU
HAVE A SUBSCRIPTION FEES.
THERE'S NO QUALITY CONTROL OR
SCHEDULING HELP SO YOU GIVEN
HOW MANY PEOPLE NEED HELP WITH
THAT, WHY CAN WE BUILD
SOMETHING BETTER?
SO HERE'S WHAT WE BUILT.
WE THOUGHT YOU CAN BUILD A
TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION AS
CONVENIENT TO USE FOR SOMEBODY
WHO NEEDS CARE AS OVER AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS.
GO ONLINE AND BOOK IN LESS THAN
TWO MINUTES AND YOU CAN GET
GREAT CHARACTER FIRST.
BEST OF ALL, WHO THEY ARE ALL
COLLEGE STUDENTS PURSUING
HEALTH CAREERS.
SO WE'VE OBSERVED THAT
APPROXIMATELY 20 PERCENT OF THE
UNDERGRADUATE POPULATION AT
MOST UNIVERSITIES IS INTERESTED
IN GOING TO HEALTH CARE CAREER
WHETHER IT'S PREMED PHYSICIAN
ASSISTANTS, NURSING PHYSICAL
THERAPY, OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY.
THESE ARE WONDERFUL STUDENTS
WHO WANT TO BASICALLY SPEND THE
REST OF THEIR LIFE TAKING CARE
OF PEOPLE AND THERE'S NO
CONVENIENT WAY FOR THEM TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE ECONOMY
BECAUSE THE CARE AGENCIES DON'T
WANT THEM BECAUSE THEY CAN'T
COMMIT TO THIRTY FORTY HOURS A
WEEK OF FIXED SHIFTS.
SO WE THOUGHT THEY WERE FAIRLY
ENGAGED AND WE FIGURE OUT A WAY
TO ENGAGE THEM.
THEY'RE VERY RELIABLE AND
STANDARDIZED WHEN THE PERSON
BOOKS CARE.
WE'VE DONE BACKGROUND CHECKS,
WE'VE DONE INTERVIEWS, WE'VE
VERIFIED ENROLLMENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY AND EACH SESSION IS
ONGOING RATED.
SO IT'S VERY QUALITY CONTROL
FOR PEOPLE TO USE IT.
THIS IS USES OVER AND THE PAY
IS ALL 15 TO 18 BUCKS AN HOUR.
BEST OF ALL WE CHARGE NO FEES.
PEOPLE USING IT CAN PAY THE
STUDENT DIRECTLY SO IT'S
MAXIMUM KIND OF AFFORDABLE
ACCESS AND NO ONE BIT
OF FEEDBACK WE'VE GOTTEN IS
PEOPLE LOVE COLLEGE STUDENTS AS
CAREGIVERS IT FEELS LIKE
FAMILY.
THAT'S BASICALLY WHAT THE VAST
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE ARE USING IT
US KNOW THE CAREGIVERS HELP
WITH EVERYTHING FROM
COMPANIONSHIP TECHNOLOGY HELP
HELP AROUND THE HOUSE GROOMING
PREPARATION FOR PETS.
YOU KNOW, CRITICALLY THEY DON'T
HELP WITH MEDICAL CARE.
YOU KNOW, WE WANTED TO KIND
MAKE IT AS OPEN AS POSSIBLE SO
WE DON'T REQUIRE THAT THEY HAVE
A NURSE OR AN EMT LICENSURE
ALTHOUGH SEVERAL OF THEM DO.
BUT THEY'RE JUST LIKE NICE
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY THAT
WANT TO HELP OUT UNIQUELY WE'RE
FINDING ABLE TO SOLVE
INTERESTING NEEDS THAT PEOPLE
HAVE LIKE WEEKEND CARE HELP
OVERNIGHT CARE, HELP.
THESE ARE READILY AVAILABLE IN
THOSE SURCHARGES.
OFTENTIMES STUDENTS REALLY WANT
TO DO THIS AND THEY WANT THESE
OPPORTUNITIES AND IT'S A BIG
NEED FOR MANY FAMILIES WHO ARE
MANAGING RISK NEEDS FOR A
FAMILY MEMBER AND THEN
BASICALLY HEARSAY.
>> SO WE WANT TO APPLY FROM
LAST IN OUR HOME BASE UNC
CHAPEL HILL AND DUKE AND WE
HAVE LIKE USUALLY TEN PEOPLE,
TWENTY PEOPLE, FIFTY PEOPLE ON
IT AND THEN OVER THE PAST SIX
MONTHS IT STARTED TO RAPIDLY
SPREAD TO UNIVERSITIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
SO UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
OUR FIRST FORAY INTO THE
MICHIGAN AREA BUT ALREADY SOME
PEOPLE AT MICHIGAN STATE HAVE
STARTED SIGNING UP.
WE'RE ALSO AT VANDERBILT.
WE'RE AT EMORY RIGHT.
OHIO STATE ARCH RIVALS AND ALSO
PITT AND AUSTIN ARE ACTUALLY
LIKE IT'S GROWING THAT ALMOST
WORD OF MOUTH FROM STUDENTS AND
PROFESSORS AND MOST OF THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE REFERRED TO THE
PLATFORM COME FROM BIOLOGY
PROFESSORS, NURSING PROFESSORS,
FREE HEALTH CAREER ADVISORS AT
THE UNIVERSITIES WE COLLABORATE
WITH BECAUSE MANY OF THEM
REALIZE THE STUDENTS DON'T HAVE
A CONVENIENT WAY TO GET CAREER
EXPERIENCE AND I THINK THEY
REALLY LIKE THE PROGRAM BECAUSE
TO EDUCATION EQUITY ISSUE FROM
THE STUDENT'S PERSPECTIVE THAT
WE OBSERVE NOT TO GET TOO
DISTRACTED ON THE TOPIC.
BUT I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY JUST
A FASCINATING POINT THAT
STUDENTS ALSO NEED EQUITABLE
EQUITABLE ACCESS AND
ENCOURAGEMENT TO PURSUE
CLINICAL CAREERS AND UNLESS
PEOPLE ARE FROM A PRIVILEGED
BACKGROUND MANY TIMES THEY
CAN'T AFFORD TO JUST DO
VOLUNTEER HOURS AT THE HOSPITAL
OR WAIT UNTIL AFTER GRADUATION
TO GET CARE EXPERIENCE THEY
NEED TO GET IT DURING THE
SCHOOL AND THEY MAKE MONEY
DOING IT.
SO THE PROGRAM SOLVES A BIG
NEED FOR THEM.
AND THEN WE'VE ALSO BUILT THE
ENTIRE PATHWAY PROGRAM WHERE
THE CAREGIVERS ARE DOING A GOOD
JOB HELPING FAMILIES.
WE HELP THEM WITH LETTERS
OF RECOMMENDATION.
PROUD TO SAY I PERSONALLY
WRITTEN HUNDREDS OF LETTERS ON
HIS RECOMMENDATION FOR PEOPLE
TO GO INTO GRADUATE PROGRAMS.
WE CONNECT THEM WITH
PHYSICIANS, NURSES, PHYSICIAN
ASSISTANTS, ANYONE THEY WANT
FOR SHADOWING OPPORTUNITIES.
SO WE REALLY ARE TRYING TO KIND
OF LIKE LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD
FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO PURSUE
THEIR CAREERS BECAUSE NOT ONLY
IS THERE A CAREGIVER SHORTAGE,
THERE'S ALSO HEALTH CARE
WORKERS IN THE COUNTRY THAT'S
INTENSIFYING BY THE DAY SO WE
CAN WE CAN DO SOMETHING TO HELP
SOLVE THAT.
CAN YOU GUYS HEAR THE SOUND?
>> I CAN NOT.
OK, OK, SORRY I THINK THAT'S A
RESUME SETTING.
I'LL SEND YOU THE SLIDES BUT
THERE'S A COUPLE OF VIDEOS ON
THERE THAT ARE REALLY WORTH
WATCHING THAT ARE JUST KIND
OF LIKE FAMILIES AND STUDENTS
TALKING ABOUT THE CARE
EXPERIENCES WHICH I THINK
WITHOUT THE SOUND DOESN'T HAVE
THE SAME EFFECT.
BUT SO FAR THE FEEDBACK FROM
THE FAMILIES HAS BEEN PRETTY
PRETTY SOLID.
PEOPLE ARE SAVING QUITE A BIT
OF MONEY USING KARIYA PEOPLE
ARE SAYING IT'S THE BEST
CAREGIVERS THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN
MANAGING CARE FOR A FAMILY
MEMBER.
THEY LOVE THE CONVENIENCE.
SO IT'S LIKE BASICALLY THESE
ARE KIND OF LIKE THE BENEFITS
THAT PEOPLE ARE OBSERVING AND
THEN AS THE PROGRAM IS GROWING
WE'RE PRIMARILY BEING DRIVEN BY
BECAUSE WE HAVE NO MARKETING OR
ADVERTISING BUDGET.
I REALLY ACTUALLY APPRECIATE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT TO
YOUR GROUP.
IT SOLELY RELIES ON WORD
OF MOUTH.
SO WORD OF MOUTH ON THE SENATE
SIDE AND PROFESSOR SIDE IN THE
WORD OF MOUTH ON THE PEOPLE
USING THE PLATFORM.
SO AS WE'VE GROWN WE'RE GETTING
A LOT OF REFERRALS FROM VERY
LARGE HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS AT
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE COUNTRY
ORGANIZATIONS ALS ASSOCIATION,
DEMENTIA ALLIANCE, ALZHEIMER'S
ASSOCIATION ETC. AS WELL AS
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE
BUILD RELATIONSHIPS.
SO I'LL SKIP THIS TOO.
BUT THERE'S SOME REALLY GOOD
VIDEOS AND THERE AND THEN AND
THEN OVER TIME THESE ARE
GROWING WE'VE STARTED TO GET
SOME COVERAGE ON THE NEWS .
I ACTUALLY THINK DETROIT ABC
NEWS FEATURES US GIVING AN
EXAMPLE OF OUR EXPERIENCE IN
THE IN OUR COMMUNITY BY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN STUDENT
.
IT'S REALLY THEIR IDEA BECAUSE
SOME OF THE IS LIKE REALLY
AWESOME.
BUT YEAH, BASICALLY THE
OBSERVATION IS THAT NONMONETARY
SONDOS I THINK ARE CREATING A
TREMENDOUS UPLIFT TO THE CARE
EXPERIENCE.
THE PEOPLE THE STUDENTS REALLY
VALUE THIS NOT JUST FOR THE
MONEY BUT FOR THE LIFE
EXPERIENCE.
MOST OF THEM ARE UPWARDLY
MOBILE SO THEY'RE GOING TO GO
INTO CLINICAL CAREERS, SEVERAL
OF THEM EDITORIALIZING WOULD
FOR FREE WHICH IS REALLY
AWESOME TO HEAR.
BUT WE WANT THEM TO GET BECAUSE
WE REALLY THINK IT'S AN
EDUCATION EQUITY ISSUE.
THE RATINGS AND THE RELIABILITY
NOW THAT WE'VE HAD THOUSANDS
OF CARE SESSIONS ARE REALLY
HIGH.
THE TRADITIONAL CARE INDUSTRY
RATINGS ARE AROUND LIKE THREE
POINT TWO OR THREE POINT THREE
OUT OF FIVE STARS.
WE'RE PROUD TO SAY WE'RE
AVERAGING OVER FOUR POINT SEVEN
ALMOST EIGHT AND EACH SESSION
RECEIVES A RATING SIMILAR TO
THE WAY YOU RATED METRIC THE ON
TIME RATES ARE THROUGH THE ROOF
SO STUDENTS LIKE VERY RELIABLE
AND REALLY WANT TO DO A GOOD
JOB AT THIS WORK.
SO THAT'S KIND OF LIKE A COOL
OBSERVATION AND THEN BASICALLY
HOW CAN ANYONE USE IT?
IT'S FOR ANYONE WHO LIVES
WITHIN 30 MINUTES OF A MAJOR
UNIVERSITY YOU CAN SIMPLY GO ON
YOUR SMARTPHONE OR TABLET OR
LAPTOP TO CARRY AOG.
YOU CAN CLICK GET CARE AND YOU
CAN LOOK ONLINE IN LESS THAN
TWO MINUTES.
CHOOSE THE NAME, ADDRESS, DATE
AND TIME OF A RECESSION AND
IT'S PRETTY EASY TO SET UP
RECURRING REQUESTS.
SO IT'S FAIRLY STRAIGHTFORWARD
FOR THE FAMILY OR THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO'S LOOKING TO OR
EVEN FOR THEMSELVES TO USE AND
THEN ON THE OTHER END IT FEELS
LIKE WE ON THAT END IT'S
ACTUALLY NOT OVER ON THE OTHER
WE HAVE LIKE A FAIRLY CAREFUL
VETTING SYSTEM SO SOMEBODY ON
OUR TEAM DOES A VERIFICATION
SYSTEM OUR PHONE CALL WITH THE
PERSON BOOKING GIVES A DETAILED
EXPLANATION OF HOW IT WORKS AND
REALLY BETTER UNDERSTANDING THE
PERSON'S CARE NEEDS.
WE OFTEN HAVE TO TURN PEOPLE
AWAY BECAUSE IT'S THE WORK
MIGHT BE TOO HIGH ACUITY FOR A
STUDENT TO HANDLE.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S AN APPROPRIATE FIT FOR
WHAT PERSON NEEDS AND WHAT THE
STUDENTS ARE ABLE TO DO AND
THEN TYPICALLY ONCE THAT'S
APPROVED IT GOES INTO THE
SYSTEM.
THE MATCH CAN BE CONFIRMED TO
THE STUDENT CAREGIVER TYPICALLY
WITHIN TWO OR THREE DAYS AND
THEN THERE'S A FULLY DETAILED
PROFILE OF A STUDENT CAREGIVER
FULL CONTACT INFORMATION
OPPORTUNITY TO LEAVE A DETAILED
REVIEW AFTER EACH CARE SESSION
AND THEN PRETTY EASY TO REQUEST
THE SAME PERSON AGAIN OR BOOK
BASED ON THE TIME RECOGNIZING
THESE ARE FULL TIME UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS.
SO IF SOMEBODY HAS A NEED FOR
THREE DAYS WEEK OR FIVE DAYS A
WEEK THERE MIGHT BE A CARE TEAM
THAT DEVELOPS A TWO OR THREE
PEOPLE TAKING TURNS AND I THINK
THAT'S THAT'S A THIS IS OUR
MISSION AND EXPANDING ACCESS TO
CARE FOR ALL AND ANYONE BESIDES
IF THEY WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
WATCHING THE VIDEOS WHICH ARE
MY HERE PART.
YEAH.
THANKS FOR TAKING TIME TO
LISTEN AND TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS ON THIS SHOT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
WONDERFUL AND DETAILED
PRESENTATION.
I'D LIKE TO OPEN IT UP TO MAYBE
TWO OR THREE QUESTIONS FOR NEIL
IF ANY COMMISSIONERS DO HAVE
QUESTIONS.
IF YOU DO PLEASE RAISE YOUR
HAND AND KENNEDY CAN CALL ON
YOU.
BUT AGAIN I'D LIKE TO LIMIT IT
TO THREE AND THEN IF THERE ARE
ANY ADDITIONAL NEIL, I HOPE
THAT OUR COMMISSIONERS OR SOME
VIEWERS CAN CAN REACH OUT TO
YOU WITH FURTHER QUESTIONS IF
NEEDED.
SURE.
YEAH.
MY EMAIL IS NEIL AND CARAD SO
FEEL FREE EMAIL ME ANY TIME AND
I HAD YES I THINK COLLIN COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS FOLLMAN GO AHEAD
.
>> HI.
THANKS FOR THAT PRESENTATION.
VERY INTERESTING.
JUST MY CURIOSITY IS THE
BUSINESS MODEL OF HOW THIS
ACTUALLY WILL WORK AGAIN I
UNDERSTAND IT FROM THE USER AND
FROM THE STUDENT SIDE OF THINGS
BUT I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
OVERALL BUSINESS MODEL.
>> YEAH GREAT QUESTION.
FORTUNATELY THERE IS A ONE AT
THE MOMENT WE ACTUALLY ARE THE
I WAS FUNNY MYSELF FOR A WHILE
AND THIS IS A PASSION PROJECT
BECAUSE I WAS KIND OF I'D
OBSERVE THE EXPERIENCE FIRST
HAND SO I WAS LIKE OKAY CAN I
BUILD SOMETHING AND GOING FOR A
WHILE AND THEN ACTUALLY AS WE
STARTED BUILDING IT A LOT
OF HEALTH CARE LEADERS IN OUR
AREA OBSERVATORY WERE BUILDING
ACTUALLY PEOPLE FROM AROUND THE
COUNTRY SO THEY GAVE US SOME
FUNDING AND THEY'RE LIKE HEY
THIS IS REALLY COOL AND IT
COULD WORK WELL AT SCALE.
SO NEAR TERM THERE IS REALLY NO
BUSINESS MODEL AND UNTIL
TRANSPARENCY LONG TERM MY
PERSONAL MISSION AND GOAL IS
NEVER TO CHARGE A PERSON FOR
USING IT SO BUSINESS TO
CONSUMER SHOULD ALWAYS BE FREE
AND I THINK THAT
PHILOSOPHICALLY MAXIMIZES
ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY TO AS
MANY PEOPLE NEED HELP AND IT
MAXIMIZES THE PAY OF THE
CAREGIVER THAT I DON'T FEEL
CARE COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE THE
MONEY OUT OF THE CAREGIVERS
POCKET BECAUSE THEY'RE DOING
NINETEEN POINT NINE PERCENT
OF THE WORK.
SO BUT THAT CREATES A CHALLENGE
IN HOW DO YOU BUILD SOMETHING
SUSTAINABLE.
SO I THINK A COUPLE OF THINGS
WE'VE BEEN DOING IS WE OPERATE
IN A VERY LOW COST MANNER WHERE
WE GET GRANTS AND KIND OF LIKE
FUNDING SUPPORT FROM HOSPITAL
SYSTEMS AND LARGE KIND OF LIKE
HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATIONS LIKE
INSURANCE COMPANIES LONGER TERM
AT SCALE LIKE WE'RE TRYING TO
KEEP THE COSTS LOW AND IT'S
MAINLY LIKE SOFTWARE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM EFFORT AND
THEN ALSO BUILD IT AT SCALE
WHERE WE CAN THEN TURN THE
TABLES AND GO TO LARGE
BUSINESSES WHO SHOULD THE
ECOSYSTEM AND BY THAT I MEAN
VERY LARGE HEALTH INSURANCE
PLANS, GOVERNMENT AND LARGE
CORPORATE EMPLOYERS ALL
OF THESE ARE SHOULD BE
RESPONSIBLE STAKEHOLDERS IN THE
ECONOMY.
THEY CURRENTLY AREN'T OR THEY
ARE TO VARYING DEGREES.
BUT IF YOU THINK ABOUT LET'S
SAY FROM AN EMPLOYER
PERSPECTIVE RIGHT.
LIKE THE WAY CHILDCARE WAS IN A
COUNTRY TWENTY THIRTY YEARS AGO
NO ONE WAS COVERING IT.
BUT PEOPLE REALIZE THAT
EMPLOYEE CAREGIVERS ARE GOING
TO BURN OUT AND LEAVE THE
WORKFORCE IN LARGE NUMBERS IF
THEY'RE MANAGING CARE FOR
SOMEONE AT HOME.
SO WE THINK THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR A NICE SHIFT
WHERE IF WE BUILD A SCALE
PLATFORM WE'VE ALREADY STARTED
GETTING IN BOUNDS FROM LARGE
COMPANIES THAT WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO HELP THEM WITH COVERING
THEIR EMPLOYEES SO PEOPLE CAN
STAY GAINFULLY EMPLOYED.
SO THAT'S ONE POSSIBLE LONG
TERM SUSTAINABLE STRATEGY AND
THEN HEALTH INSURANCE IS ONE
OF THE BIG ONES.
SO IN A LOT OF POPULATIONS WE
SERVE FOR EXAMPLE LIKE THE
OLDER POPULATION ABOUT SIXTY
FIVE MEDICARE ADVANTAGE IS NOW
OVER HALF OF THE WAY MEDICARE
IS ADMINISTERED ACROSS THE
COUNTRY PRIVATELY MANAGED
MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PLANS AND
THEY HAVE A VESTED INTEREST IN
KEEPING PEOPLE OUT
OF HOSPITALS, HELPING PEOPLE
AVOID FALLS, HELPING PEOPLE
STAY HEALTHY AND AVOID E.R.
VISITS.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER KIND
OF SOURCE THAT MIGHT BE ABLE TO
KIND OF WORK WITH US.
SO I'D SAY WE'RE REASONABLY
WELL FUNDED FOR THE NEXT KIND
OF LIKE THREE OR FOUR YEARS.
BUT I THINK THERE IS A LONGER
TERM SUSTAINABILITY QUESTION
THAT WE'LL HAVE TO KIND
OF ADDRESS HOW WE CAN KIND
OF KEEP THE SERVICE ALIVE.
BUT ON A COUNTERINTUITIVE NOTE,
AS THE MORE THE PLATFORM GROWS
,THE MORE PEOPLE ARE JUMPING
IN TO FIND US.
SO WE RECEIVED SOME FUNDING
FROM THE AARP.
WE'VE ACTUALLY HAD A
PARTNERSHIP WITH OUR FOUNDATION
IN CHICAGO.
SO IT'S BEEN KIND OF BETWEEN
INDIVIDUAL HEALTH CARE LEADERS
WHO WANT TO SEE IT SUCCEED AS
WELL AS LARGE FOUNDATIONS
ORGANIZATIONS.
IT'S ACTUALLY IN SOME WAY
BECOME KIND OF SELF-SUSTAINING
THROUGH THAT BECAUSE SOLVING A
LOT OF PROBLEMS AND I ACTUALLY
THINK LONGER TERM THE FINAL
FUNDING PATHWAY WILL BE
EDUCATION EQUITY FOR STUDENTS.
I THINK THERE'S SO MUCH WORK
FOR DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS THAT
YOU COULD SIMPLY FUND IT ON THE
BACK OF THAT WE ARE ENCOURAGING
A MASSIVELY DIVERSE WORKFORCE
OF PEOPLE TO PURSUE THEIR DREAM
OF HEALTH CARE CAREERS AND WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THE PUBLIC HEALTH
STATISTICS ON THAT, FOR
EXAMPLE, I JUST SAY ONE BY THE
WAY IS I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
KNOW IF I'M RAMBLING ANSWER
OUTPOLL OK, OK.
SO LIKE ONE OF THE STATISTICS
THAT WE PRESENT TO NORTH COUNTY
GOVERNMENT WAS THE WORKFORCE
HERE WHICH I DON'T KNOW IF
MIGHT BE THE SAME IS VERY NOT
DIVERSE LIKE ONLY 10 PERCENT
OF DOCTORS ARE BLACK OR
HISPANIC.
ONLY NINE PERCENT NURSES HERE
ARE BLACK OR HISPANIC.
RIGHT.
BUT THE POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
IS APPROXIMATELY A THIRD OF THE
POPULATION IS LIKE I GUESS WHAT
IN KOREA IT'S LIKE IT
REPRESENTS A POPULATION.
RIGHT.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
FROM MINORITY BACKGROUNDS ALSO
IN NORTH CHINA WE'RE VERY RURAL
SO THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
ARE FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE
STUDENTS FROM ALL BACKGROUNDS
AND WE'RE STUDYING THE
STATISTICS THAT MANY OF THESE
STUDENTS FRESHMAN AND SOPHOMORE
YEAR DREAM.
I WANT TO BECOME A DOCTOR.
I WANT TO BECOME A NURSE.
I WANT TO BECOME PHYSICIAN
ASSISTANT.
BY THE TIME SENIOR YEAR ROLLS
AROUND THEY'VE GIVEN UP ON THAT
DREAM.
SO THEY'RE SAYING THAT THROUGH
THEIR ABILITY TO MAKE INCOME
PART TIME FLEXIBLE TO THEIR
SCHEDULE, THE ABILITY TO GET
PEOPLE TO WRITE LETTERS
OF RECOMMENDATION, THE ABILITY
TO GET US TO CONNECT THEM WITH
SHATTERING OPPORTUNITIES THIS
IS ACTUALLY ENCOURAGING A MORE
DIVERSE WORKFORCE.
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT IF WE CAN
PULL IT OFF LONG TERM, THE
WHOLE THING WOULD BE LIKE A
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUNDING
WHICH I THINK IS WHY HOSPITALS
ARE PARTNERING WITH US.
ATRIUM HEALTH IS LIKE GIVING US
SOME GRANT FUNDING THAT'S LIKE
ONE OF THE BIGGEST HOSPITALS
SYSTEMS AROUND HERE.
SO SORRY FOR THE LONG WINDED
ANSWER BUT NO, NOT ALWAYS VERY
NAIVELY IDEALISTIC I KNOW
SPEAKING JUST THINK OF MYSELF
NOT FOR AS A COMMISSIONER I
THINK IT'S FANTASTIC.
I THINK YOU'RE A FANTASTIC
SPOKESPERSON FOR THIS AND I
REALLY, REALLY APPRECIATE WHAT
YOU'RE DOING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YEAH, I THINK SOMEONE SHOULD
LISTEN TO HI THIS TO SOMEONE
WHO CURRENTLY TAKES CARE OF HER
PARENTS AND I WORKED AS A
DIRECT CARE PROFESSIONAL
PREVIOUSLY.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
ONE IS LIABILITY IF SOMETHING
WERE TO HAPPEN IN THE HOME THEN
BECAUSE IT'S BASICALLY LIKE A
FREELANCER GIG WORK KIND
OF PLATFORM WHO TAKES ON THE
LIABILITY OF THAT VERSUS
BECAUSE WHEN YOU'RE COMPARING
IT TO GOING THROUGH A CARE
AGENCY VERSUS DOING IT ON YOUR
OWN THEN PART OF WHY PEOPLE
CHOOSE THE AGENCY AND THE
HIGHER RATE IS BECAUSE THERE'S
THE AGENCY CARRIES THE
LIABILITY IF SOMETHING WERE TO
HAPPEN INCLUDING IF SOMETHING
WERE TO HAPPEN TO THE CARE
RECIPIENT AS WELL AS IF
SOMETHING WERE TO HAPPEN TO THE
CAREGIVER.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE THEY'RE AN EMPLOYEE
OF THE AGENCY WHICH MEANS THAT
WORKER'S COMPENSATION AND ALL
OF THAT AND SO IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE WHO TAKES ON
THAT RESPONSE LIABILITY IF
SOMETHING WERE TO HAPPEN?
AND ALSO AS YOU'RE ABLE TO
SCALE UP WILL YOUR WITH
COMPENSATION FOR ONE OR THE
COMPENSATION FOR THE STUDENTS
INCREASE BECAUSE THE ONE OF THE
OTHER ISSUES IN CARE AND WITH
CAREGIVERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
HAS BEEN THE PAYERS YOU KNOW,
HOWEVER THEY'RE THERE FIGHTING
FOR MORE THAN FIFTEEN DOLLARS
AN HOUR AND AROUND HERE FIVE
FIFTEEN IS KIND OF AN ENTRY
RATE AS WELL AND THAT'S FOR
PEOPLE.
IT'S LIKE 15 TO 18 DEPENDING ON
THE LEVEL OF EXPERIENCE THAT
YOU HAVE GETTING CARE AND SO
LIKE AS IT GROWS, WILL YOU
INCREASE THE THE RATES FOR THE
FOR THE CAREGIVERS?
YEAH, GREAT QUESTION AND THANKS
FOR BOTH QUESTIONS AND I'LL
ANSWER THEM IN REVERSE ORDER ON
THE RIGHT ONE.
SO WE ACTUALLY AND WE
CONTESTING WITH THIS BECAUSE WE
RUN IT THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
OF LIKE DYNAMIC PRICING BECAUSE
WE REALIZE IN CERTAIN MARKETS
LIKE AS WE EXPAND INTO LIKE THE
BOSTON MASSACHUSETTS AREA OR IN
CALIFORNIA SOMETIMES THE RATES
ARE JUST HIGHER WHEREAS LIKE
WE'RE BASED OUT OF NORTH
CAROLINA WE'RE LIKE JUST LIKE
OVERALL COST OF LIVING IS LOWER
AND WAGES ARE ALSO LOWER.
WE'RE KIND OF LIKE FLEXIBLE ON
THE RIGHT SIDE LIKE BECAUSE WE
DON'T TAKE A CUT.
IT'S NOT LIKE VERY IMPORTANT TO
US WHAT THE RATE IS.
BUT I THINK WE'RE TRYING TO
SOLVE DUAL GOALS WHICH
SOMETIMES ARE ACTUALLY
CONTRADICTORY OF LIKE GETTING
THE CAREGIVERS PAID AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE BUT ALSO HAVING THE
FAMILIES BE ABLE TO AFFORD THE
CARE.
SO WE'VE KIND OF KIND OF TRIED
TO ON THE SIDE OF THE LADDER AS
A BIGGER PRIORITY WHERE WE
REALIZE THAT THERE'S A MASSIVE
CARE GAP WHERE PEOPLE CANNOT
JUST AFFORD CARE.
SO WE'RE KIND OF SET THE RATE
THAT WHAT IS THE RATE WHERE
MOST PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO GET
THAT ACCESS WHERE THERE'S
ENOUGH STUDENTS THAT ACTUALLY
WANT TO DO THE WORK.
SO I DON'T KNOW EXACT I'M STILL
LEARNING ABOUT ANOTHER MARKET
BUT IN NORTH CAROLINA THE PRE
HEALTH CARE STUDENTS HAVE BEEN
VERY HAPPY WITH OUR RATE AND
THE ONLY REASON WE ACTUALLY
EVEN HAD TO INTRODUCE A
VARIABILITY IN PRICING IS THAT
WE REALIZED FOR SHORT
APPOINTMENTS LIKE TWO OR THREE
HOURS OR EVEN FOUR HOURS.
SOMETIMES THE STUDENTS LIKE
HESITATING ON LIKE DRIVING
ESPECIALLY AFTER DRIVE LIKE 20
30 MINUTES TO DO A SHORT
APPOINTMENT.
SO THEN WE STARTED INTRODUCING
DYNAMIC PRICING WHERE IT MIGHT
GET CLOSER TO TWICE AN HOUR IF
YOU HAD TO DO A SHORT SHIFT.
BUT WE GENERALLY FOUND THE
STUDENTS ARE PRETTY HAPPY WITH
THAT.
I'D SAY EVEN IN SOME HIGH COST
AREAS LIKE EVEN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS, WE LAUNCHED A
PROGRAM THAT 15 TO 20 SEEMED TO
BE A REASONABLE IF THE STUDENT
COULD GET THAT BECAUSE THEY
WERE GETTING SUPPLEMENTAL KIND
OF BENEFITS INCLUDING MY CAREER
PATHWAY.
SO I THINK I'M KIND OF FLEXIBLE
ON THAT BUT I REALLY LIKE EACH
DOLLAR THAT THE RATE GOES UP IS
ONE MORE DOLLAR THE FAMILY'S
POCKET.
SO YOU NEED TO KIND OF LIKE
WEIGH THAT ACCORDINGLY LIKE DO
WE NEED MORE CAREGIVERS OR DO
WE WANT TO HAVE ACCESS TO MORE
FAMILIES?
LIKE RIGHT NOW IT'S ACTUALLY
KIND OF LIKE GOING VIRAL.
THE CAREGIVER SAID WE'RE GOING
TO HANG LIKE SO MANY PEOPLE
SIGNING UP THAT NO I PUT ON THE
SHEET WHICH WAS LIKE AN
OUTDATED NO OFF THE CHART.
IT'S NOW LIKE OVER WE HAVE OVER
FOUR THOUSAND CAREGIVERS ACROSS
MANY UNIVERSITIES.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A
TREMENDOUS MARKET DEMAND
OF CAREGIVERS TO WANT TO DO
THIS.
BUT I THINK I'M KIND OF OPEN
MINDED ON THAT.
BUT JUST RECOGNIZING THAT
WHATEVER REASON CAREGIVERS
THAT'S NOW MORE MY FAMILIES
HAVE TO PAY WHICH MEANS FEWER
FAMILIES TO GET THE HELP.
BUT TO YOUR POINT ABOUT THE THE
LIABILITY SO FOR NOW WE'RE
SIMILAR TO OTHER ONLINE
PLATFORMS LIKE CARE DOTCOM OR
KIND OF JUST OTHER ASSISTANCE
SERVICES WHERE PEOPLE FIND I'D
SAY IT'S PRIVATE LIKE PRIVATE
DUTY CAREGIVERS WHERE PEOPLE
ARE FINDING CAREGIVERS AND IT'S
THE TWO SIDES MAKING THE
TRANSACTION WHERE WE'RE JUST A
FACILITATOR CONNECTOR SO THE
LIABILITY IS PRIMARILY BETWEEN
THE TWO PARTIES AND WE HAVE
LIKE VERY CLEAR IN OUR LANGUAGE
THAT IT'S NOT A CARE AGENCY.
THAT SAID I WOULD SAY AT LEAST
FROM WHAT WE'VE OBSERVED WITH
AGENCIES IN OUR AREA IS THAT
THE AGENCIES ARE PLAYING A LOT
OF KIND OF GAMES WHERE MOST
OF THE AGENCIES IN OUR AREA
DON'T ACTUALLY HAVE THE
CAREGIVERS AS EMPLOYEES.
THEY ALL HAVE THEM AS
CONTRACTORS AND THEY'RE VERY
CAREFUL ABOUT NOT HAVING TO GO
OVER A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF HOURS
PER WEEK SO THEY CAN KEEP KIND
OF AN ARM'S LENGTH RELATIONSHIP
AGENCIES TO BUY SUPPLEMENTAL
INSURANCE POLICIES WHICH WE'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT BUYING.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE LIKE AN
UMBRELLA INSURANCE POLICY
THROUGH LLOYD'S OF LONDON
UNDERWRITER THAT COVERS UP TO
ONE MILLION PER INCIDENT HAD
EIGHT MILLION IN AGGREGATE.
SO WE DO HAVE INSURANCE BUT WE
DON'T KIND OF GO ABOVE AND
BEYOND INSURANCE SIDE BECAUSE
AGAIN IT'S THE SAME THING THAT
IF WE START SPENDING A LOT ON
THAT OUR MATH ON THE AGENCY
BASED INSURANCE WAS THAT TO GET
LIABILITY INSURANCE FOR EACH
PERSON IT WAS APPROXIMATELY
THREE DOLLARS AN HOUR.
SO AGAIN IT'S KIND OF THE
MISSION OF EXPANDING ACCESS TO
FOR CAREGIVING.
WE JUST THOUGHT IT WAS AN
UNNECESSARY THING FOR THE
POPULATION WE'RE SERVING
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING AFTER
PEOPLE WHO USE AGENCIES.
WE'RE TRYING TO FIND PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T AFFORD THE AGENCIES WHO
ARE DOING IT THEMSELVES AND I
WOULD SAY THAT TO OUR
ALTERNATIVES IT'S USUALLY
SOMEBODY'S GONNA CARE DOT COM
OR YOU DON'T HAVE INSURANCE.
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY VETTING, YOU
DON'T KNOW WHO YOU'RE GETTING.
YOU'RE JUST KIND OF MESSAGING
PEOPLE YOURSELF AND IN THE
HANADA AREA OF MUCH CARE DOT
COM IS AROUND TWENTY TO AN HOUR
SOMETIMES EVEN TWENTY FIVE AN
HOUR AND THAT PERSON IS NOT
INSURED.
IT'S JUST SOMEBODY YOU'VE MET
OVER THE INTERNET AND DOT
DOTCOM TAKES KIND OF NO
RESPONSIBILITY AND HAS NO
FILTERING MECHANISM.
SO SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS
ACTUALLY LOWER COST THAN THAT
AND IS VETTED BACKGROUND
CHECKED AND ENROLLMENT AT
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SO WE FEEL THAT IT'S KIND
OF SUPERIOR TO THAT AND
SUPERIOR TO SOMEBODY JUST
ASKING FRIENDS, NEIGHBORS,
SOMEBODY AT CHURCH WHILE I CAN
FOR COMMISSION.
SO IT'S NOT MEANT TO BE
NECESSARILY LIKE A COMPETITOR
TO AGENCY BASED CARE.
I THINK IF PEOPLE CAN AFFORD
THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY WANT THAT
EXTRA PROTECTION THEY MIGHT AS
WELL.
BUT WHAT WE FOUND IS LIKE
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN EIGHTY FIVE
OR NINETY PERCENT OF PEOPLE ARE
JUST COMPLETELY PRICED OUT
OF THAT MARKET AND THOSE PEOPLE
DOING THAT COMPLETELY ON THEIR
OWN.
SO THIS BECOMES A BETTER
SOLUTION THAN THAT.
>> SO JUST TO FOLLOW UP, WHAT
KIND WHAT KIND OF BACKGROUND
CHECK AND YOU SAID THAT THE
TRANSACTION THE FINANCIAL
TRANSACTION HAPPENS BETWEEN THE
INDIVIDUAL AND THE CAREGIVER
AND THE RECIPIENT, RIGHT?
YES.
SO SO THEY COULD PAY DIRECTLY
OVERHEAD.
OH, IT'S GOING TO SAY SO THEN
IF SOMEONE HAD A LONG TERM CARE
INSURANCE POLICY WHICH IS
ACTUALLY VERY POPULAR HERE,
THEN THEY WOULD HAVE THE
ABILITY TO CONTRACT WITH THE
PERSON AND UTILIZE THAT ON THE
OUTSIDE, RIGHT?
>> I THINK SO, YEAH.
I'M NOT AS FAMILIAR WITH SO TO
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION, THE
BACKGROUND CHECK IS THROUGH A
TECHNICAL BACKGROUND CHECK
SOMETHING CALLED MUNCHAK WHICH
ACTUALLY WAS JUST LAUNCHED BY
THE FOUNDER OF LINKEDIN IS
LAUNCHED ABOUT A YEAR AGO AND
IT'S LIKE A VERY RELIABLE WAY
TO GET KIND OF ON THE SPOT
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND ALSO
REALLY AFFORDABLE SOLUTION THAT
WE CAN SCALE AROUND THE COUNTRY
AND THEN THE RELATION BETWEEN
THAT THE PERSON BOOKING THE
CARE OF THE CAREGIVER.
YES.
IS DIRECT I THINK I'M NOT AS
FAMILIAR IN THE LONG TERM SIDE
.
I KNOW A BUNCH OF PEOPLE NEVER
TRIED TO GET IT THROUGH THAT
AND I THINK A COUPLE OF THINGS
I'VE NOTICED IS THAT LONG TERM
CARE POLICIES DEPENDING ON WHEN
THEY WERE UNDERWRITTEN USUALLY
DON'T REIMBURSE VERY HIGH SO
MANY PEOPLE HAVE LIKE PART
OF THE CARE COVERED BUT EVEN IF
YOU'RE NOT IT'S NOT FULLY
COVERED .
AND THEN I BELIEVE DEPENDING ON
THE POLICY SOMETIMES THERE'S A
REQUIREMENT TO BE CMA.
SO THEN IT'S KIND OF LUCK
OF THE DRAW WHERE LIKE SOME
STUDENTS HAVE A AND THEN THEY
CAN KIND OF QUALIFY FOR
COVERAGE.
OTHER ONES DON'T.
BUT YES, I THINK FAMILIES AND
FAMILIES HAVE ACCESS AND THEY
ARE ABLE TO KIND OF LIKE PAY
THROUGH THAT AND WE'RE WE'RE
KIND OF INDIFFERENT AS LONG AS
THE STUDENT DOESN'T REPORT THAT
HEY, THIS PERSON DIDN'T PAY ME,
THEN WE WOULD KIND OF LIKE HAVE
A FLAG IN OUR SYSTEM IN THE TO
BE BOOKED AGAIN.
BUT I THINK THAT ONE OF PAYMENT
METHODS PEOPLE WANT ARE FINE
WITH US BECAUSE WE'RE NOT
CHARGING THE REST OF IT.
I'LL JUST EMAIL.
>> SURE.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
TO GIVE SOME STUFF ABOUT THE
YEAH.
LANDSCAPE HERE TO HELP OUT.
TO GIVE SOME STUFF ABOUT THE
>> SO THAT'S SURE.
LANDSCAPE HERE TO HELP OUT.
>> YEAH THAT'S VERY MUCH YEAH.
>> SO THAT'S SURE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> YEAH THAT'S VERY MUCH YEAH.
MR. JOB FOR YOUR DETAILED
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
EXPLANATIONS AND ALSO AGAIN
MR. JOB FOR YOUR DETAILED
JUST FOR THE INITIATIVE AND
EXPLANATIONS AND ALSO AGAIN
EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE DOING.
JUST FOR THE INITIATIVE AND
ABSOLUTELY.
EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE DOING.
I THINK IT'S IT'S OUTSTANDING
ABSOLUTELY.
AND THEN YEAH.
I THINK IT'S IT'S OUTSTANDING
ANYBODY THAT HAS ANY QUESTIONS
AND THEN YEAH.
GOING FORWARD FOR KOREA OR FOR
ANYBODY THAT HAS ANY QUESTIONS
MR. SHORE HIMSELF, PLEASE FEEL
GOING FORWARD FOR KOREA OR FOR
FREE TO REACH OUT.
MR. SHORE HIMSELF, PLEASE FEEL
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH.
FREE TO REACH OUT.
GREAT.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YEAH THANKS.
GREAT.
THANKS.
YEAH THANKS.
THANKS VERY MUCH FOR THE
THANKS.
OPPORTUNITY AND THANKS EVERYONE
THANKS VERY MUCH FOR THE
FOR TAKING THE TIME TO LEARN
OPPORTUNITY AND THANKS EVERYONE
ABOUT WHAT WE'RE DOING AND
FOR TAKING THE TIME TO LEARN
APPRECIATE YOUR THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT WHAT WE'RE DOING AND
QUESTIONS AND THAT WOULD LOVE
APPRECIATE YOUR THOUGHTFUL
ANY FEEDBACK AND JUST HELP WITH
QUESTIONS AND THAT WOULD LOVE
BUILDING AWARENESS IN THE
ANY FEEDBACK AND JUST HELP WITH
COMMUNITY SO WE CAN KIND
BUILDING AWARENESS IN THE
OF LIKE GET MORE STUDENTS
COMMUNITY SO WE CAN KIND
INVOLVED IN HELPING PEOPLE IN
OF LIKE GET MORE STUDENTS
THE COMMUNITY AND KIND
INVOLVED IN HELPING PEOPLE IN
OF CREATE A MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL
THE COMMUNITY AND KIND
EXPERIENCE FOR EVERYONE.
OF CREATE A MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL
SO THANKS VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
EXPERIENCE FOR EVERYONE.
TIME AND HAVE A GREAT
SO THANKS VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
AFTERNOON.
TIME AND HAVE A GREAT
>> THANK YOU TOO SIR.
AFTERNOON.
THE ALL RIGHT NEXT THAT MOVES
>> THANK YOU TOO SIR.
ON TO THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR
THE ALL RIGHT NEXT THAT MOVES
THE BLIND AND PHYSICALLY
ON TO THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR
DISABLED WITH KATIE MARKOVITCH.
THE BLIND AND PHYSICALLY
WELCOME KATIE.
DISABLED WITH KATIE MARKOVITCH.
HI EVERYBODY.
WELCOME KATIE.
TO SEE YOU ALL.
HI EVERYBODY.
I'VE GOT A COUPLE OF THINGS
TO SEE YOU ALL.
ABOUT TODAY.
I'VE GOT A COUPLE OF THINGS
FIRST OF ALL, HANG ON.
ABOUT TODAY.
I NEED TO CHANGE MY SCREEN.
FIRST OF ALL, HANG ON.
ALL RIGHT.
I NEED TO CHANGE MY SCREEN.
WELL, I GUESS I THAT'S FINE.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, SO WE GOT A COUPLE
OF EVENTS COMING UP THAT I WANT
TO TELL YOU ABOUT.
FIRST ONE IS A DJ WORKSHOP
THAT'S COMING UP ON SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER TWENTY THIRD FROM TWO
TO THREE THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
THIS EVENT IS PERFECT FOR
BEGINNERS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
GETTING STARTED WITH DEEJAYING
OR FOR THOSE WHO JUST WANT TO
LEARN SOME NEW SKILLS AT THE
WORKSHOP EVENT YOU'LL GET A
HANDS ON EXPERIENCE WITH
INDUSTRY STANDARD EQUIPMENT AND
LEARN THE BASICS OF MIXING AND
MATCHING AND WE ALSO HAVE A
PRETTY BIG EVENT COMING UP
CALLED MALL WALKS ACROSS
AMERICA.
YOU MIGHT HAVE ALREADY HEARD
ABOUT THIS.
IT'S GOING TO BE ON SATURDAY
SEPTEMBER TWENTY THIRD FROM
SEVEN TO EIGHT P.M. STARTING AT
THE ANN ARBOR FARMER'S MARKET
IN KOREATOWN.
A LITTLE AMOL IS A 12 FOOT TALL
PUPPET OF A TEN YEAR OLD SYRIAN
REFUGEE CHILD AT THE HEART
OF THE WALK SHE'S BECOME A
GLOBAL SYMBOL OF HUMAN RIGHTS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE OF REFUGEES
SINCE JULY TWENTY TWENTY ONE
I'M HAS TRAVELED OVER NINE
THOUSAND KILOMETERS TO NINETY
FOUR TOWNS AND CITIES IN 14
COUNTRIES AND BEEN WELCOMED BY
MORE THAN A MILLION PEOPLE ON
THE STREET, INCLUDING HUNDREDS
OF ARTISTS AND CIVIL SOCIETY
AND FAITH LEADERS AS WELL AS BY
TENS OF MILLIONS ONLINE.
HER JOURNEYS ARE FESTIVALS
OF ART AND HOPE THAT DRAW
ATTENTION TO THE HUGE NUMBERS
OF CHILDREN FLEEING WAR,
VIOLENCE AND PERSECUTION EACH
WITH THEIR OWN STORY.
HER URGENT MESSAGE TO THE WORLD
IS DON'T FORGET ABOUT US
BETWEEN SEPTEMBER 7TH AND
NOVEMBER 5TH, AMAL WILL JOURNEY
SIX THOUSAND MILES ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES.
THIRTY FIVE TOWNS AND CITIES
FROM BOSTON TO SAN DIEGO AND
MORE THAN A THOUSAND ARTISTS
AND ARTS ORGANIZATIONS WILL
CREATE MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED
EVENTS TO WELCOME HER.
I'M ALL JOURNEYS OF ART AND
HOPE TO CELEBRATE THE RICH
STORIES OF REFUGEES, IMMIGRANTS
AND DISPLACED PEOPLE AND THE
COMMUNITIES THAT WELCOME THEM.
WE WILL MEET AT THE KOREATOWN
FARMER'S MARKET TO WALK WITH
LITTLE AMOL TO THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY.
AND WE ALSO HAVE COMING UP ABCS
OF MEDICARE WITH JAY OH THIS IS
ON WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4TH FROM
FOUR TO FIVE THIRTY PM AT THE
WESTGATE BRANCH.
JOE IS THE AUTHOR OF MAXIMIZE
YOUR MEDICARE.
HE WILL BE EXPLAINING MEDICARE
PARTS A AND B AS WELL AS
PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS,
MEDICARE MEDIGAP AND MEDICARE
ADVANTAGE WILL BE COMPARED TO
ALONG WITH HOW EMPLOYER
SPONSORED BENEFITS WORK WITH
MEDICARE.
THE INFLATION REDUCTION ACT
WILL INTRODUCE NOTABLE CHANGES
AND WILL BE DESCRIBED IN FULL
DETAIL DURING THIS PRESENTATION
.
>> QUESTIONS WILL BE WELCOMED
THROUGHOUT.
>> OK, SOME INFORMATION ON
LIBRARY MATERIALS IBD PATIENTS
CAN ORDER DIGITAL CARTRIDGES
AND OTHER MATERIALS BY CALLING
SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE TWO
SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR OR
EMAILING US AT LBB DIALOG AND
TO SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE AND
AUDIO READING SERVICE OR BAADE
TO DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS ON
YOUR OWN DEVICE VISIT
ANNALISE'S BAR ELIZEE DOT GOV
OR CALL WE CAN ASSIST WITH THAT
APPLICATION.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF NEW BOOKS
OF NOTE THAT YOU CAN FIND ON
BAADE THE FIRST BEING HOW WE
EAT THE BRAVE NEW WORLD OF FOOD
AND DRINK BY PACO UNDERHILL.
OUR FOOD SYSTEM IS UNDERGOING A
TOTAL TRANSFORMATION THAT
IMPACTS HOW WE PRODUCE, GET AND
CONSUME OUR FOOD MARKET.
RESEARCHER AMBERSONS AUTHOR
PACO UNDERHILL HELD BY THE SAN
FRANCISCO CHRONICLE AS SHERLOCK
HOLMES FOR RETAILERS REVEALS
WHERE EATING AND DRINKING LIVES
ARE HEADING AND HIS DELECTABLE
HIS DELECTABLE BOOK HOW WE EAT
IN THIS UPBEAT, HOPEFUL AND
WITTY APPROACH HOW WE EAT
REVEALS THE FUTURE OF FOOD IN
SURPRISING WAYS.
AND THEN HERE'S A VERY POPULAR
NOVEL THAT A LOT OF OUR
PATIENTS ARE READING RIGHT NOW
OR HAVE RECENTLY.
IT'S CALLED HELLO BEAUTIFUL A
NOVEL BY ANNE NUPE NAPOLITANO
NAPOLITANO I THINK THAT'S
RIGHT.
IS IT WILLIAM WATTERS GREW UP
IN THE HOUSE SILENCED BY
TRAGEDY WHERE HIS PARENTS COULD
HARDLY BEAR TO LOOK HIM JUST
LOVE HIM.
SO WHEN HE MEETS THE SPIRITED
AND AMBITIOUS JULIA A PADOVANO
IN HIS FRESHMAN COLLEGE IT'S AS
IF THE WORLD HAS LIT UP AROUND
HIM.
WITH JULIA COMES HER FAMILY AS
SHE AND HER THREE SISTERS ARE
INSEPARABLE WITH THE POT
OF BONOS WILLIAM EXPERIENCES A
NEWFOUND CONTENTMENT.
EVERY MOMENT IN THEIR HOUSE IS
FILLED WITH LOVE AND CHAOS.
BUT THEN DARKNESS FROM
WILLIAM'S PAST SERVICES
JEOPARDIZING NOT ONLY JULIA'S
CAREFULLY ORCHESTRATED PLANS
FOR THEIR FUTURE BUT A SISTER'S
UNSHAKABLE DEVOTION TO ONE
ANOTHER.
THE RESULT IS A CATASTROPHIC
FAMILY RIFT THAT CHANGES THEIR
LIVES FOR GENERATIONS.
AN EXQUISITE HOMAGE TO LOUISA
ALCOTT'S TIMELESS CLASSIC
LITTLE WOMEN.
HELLO BEAUTIFUL IS A PROFOUNDLY
MOVING PORTRAIT OF WHAT IS
POSSIBLE WHEN WE CHOOSE TO LOVE
SOMEONE NOT IN SPITE OF WHO
THEY ARE BUT BECAUSE OF IT.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO REMIND
EVERYBODY THAT THERE ARE A LOT
OF WORLD LANGUAGES THOSE TITLES
ARE AVAILABLE IN BAAD.
MANY TITLES THAT I WAS SEEING
IN OUR RECENTLY ADDED LIST THIS
MONTH WERE IN SPANISH.
I CAN'T TELL WHAT THEY'RE ABOUT
BECAUSE THEY DON'T SPEAK
SPANISH BUT IT WAS VERY COOL TO
SEE AND I THOUGHT I WOULD
MENTION THAT SO THAT
EVERYBODY'S AWARE YOU CAN GET
BOOKS IN DIFFERENT LANGUAGES
FOR MY COLLECTION AS WELL AND
THAT IS ALL THAT I HAVE FOR
GIRLS TODAY AND IF WE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS WELL
WONDERFUL STUFF AND YES, I HOPE
WE CAN ALL WALK WITH THEM
SMILE.
IT'S A WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL
PUPPET IF YOU GUYS HAVE NOT
SEEN BUT THIS REPRESENTS SUCH A
GREAT, GREAT THING AND LOOKING
FORWARD TO THAT.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
KATIE, DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS FOR KATIE
AT THIS TIME?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL AS USUAL, THANK YOU KATIE
FOR EVERYTHING THAT YOU AND ALL
THE LIBRARY STAFF DO.
>> WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOU
VERY MUCH.
WELL, THANKS EVERYBODY.
FOR HAVING US.
>> WE'RE ALWAYS HAPPY TO BE
HERE.
WE'LL SEE YOU NEXT TIME.
ALL RIGHTY.
OK, MOVING ON, WE HAVE OUR NEXT
PRESENTATION BUT I DON'T THINK
JOYCE IS HERE.
ALEX, ARE YOU ARE YOU GOING TO
BE TAKING THE PLACE OF JOYCE
TODAY OR NOT?
>> SO
YEAH, THE PERSON THAT'S
GOING TO BE TAKING THEIR PLACE
IS NOT HERE TODAY.
THEY'LL BE STARTING NEXT MONTH
AND NEXT YEAR TO THAT KENNEDY
IS CONNECTED WITH THEM.
OK, EMAIL SET UP RIGHT AFTER TO
GO OUT RIGHT AFTER THIS MEETING
TODAY WE ARE CLOSING OUT THE
END OF OUR CALENDAR YEAR.
SO GRAPHIC A LOT OF THINGS UP
BUT ALSO GETTING THINGS PLANNED
FOR THE NEW YEAR.
I WOULD SAY THE ONE THING THAT
I WOULD MENTION THAT WE DO HAVE
COMING UP EVENT WISE IS WE HAVE
A TRUNK OR TREAT AND HALLOWEEN
DANCE FOR FOLKS IN THE
COMMUNITY.
IT'S GOING TO BE ON FRIDAY THE
13TH OF OCTOBER AT OUR OFFICE
AND I'LL GIVE THE ADDRESS HERE
IN JUST A MINUTE.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO DO A TRUNK
OR TREAT AS WELL AS THE
HALLOWEEN DANCE AFTERWARDS.
WE'RE STILL LOOKING FOR FOLKS
TO PARTICIPATE AS TO TO COME IN
AND PASS OUT CANDY AS WELL AS
JUST GET THE WORD OUT TO THE
COMMUNITY THAT WE CAN HAVE YOU
CAN HOST A WHOLE LOT OF YOUNG
FOLKS IN OUR BUILDING.
MAN WOULD LOVE TO SEE A FULL
HOUSE AGAIN THAT ACTIVITY IS
GOING TO BE ON FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 13TH FROM SIX TO NINE
AT OUR OFFICE THREE NINE FOUR
ONE RESEARCH PARK DRIVE IN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
AND FOR FOLKS WHO MAYBE HAVE
BEEN OVER OUR WAY ANY TIME
RECENTLY THE CONSTRUCTION ON
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE IS OVER AND
DONE WITH.
SO WE HAVE A BRAND NEW ROAD AND
ALL GOOD THINGS SO MORE TO COME
NEXT MONTH IF FOLKS ARE LOOKING
TO GET CONNECTED WITH US OR
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING ON IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF MONTHS HERE THEY CAN ALWAYS
VISIT OUR WEBSITE W W W W W AND
ELSHAUG AWESOME.
THANK YOU ALEX FOR TODAY.
YEAH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL THAT
YOU GUYS ARE DOING.
YOU KNOW, JUST REALLY A
WONDERFUL PLACE THAT YOU GUYS
HAVE BY THE WAY,
CONGRATULATIONS ON THE
CONSTRUCTION RIGHT OUTSIDE
OF YOUR BUILDING THAT IS
FINALLY FINISHED.
SO THAT WAS REALLY GREAT TO SEE
THAT AND THE THE ACCESS FROM
THE ROAD INTO YOUR YOUR
BUILDING IS NOW ACCESSIBLE AND
ALL SET TO GO.
SO THAT'S THAT'S AWESOME AND
YEAH.
ANYBODY I ENCOURAGE ALL OF YOU
TO TO REACH OUT TO ALEX REACH
OUT AND YOU KNOW INQUIRE ABOUT
THE WASHTENAW OF MONROE
LIVINGSTON CENTER.
IT'S WONDERFUL AND THEY DO A
LOT OF GREAT THINGS.
THANK YOU ALEX.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT
WITH RACHEL AND LARRY AND ALEX,
YOU GUYS HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT AT THIS TIME?
>> I WASN'T WASN'T ABLE TO MAKE
THE MEETING UNFORTUNATELY LAST
WEEK.
SO I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING IN
PARTICULAR TO REPORT.
I REACHED OUT TO MELISSA TO GET
AN UPDATE ON ANN ARBOR
INCLUSIVE AND I'M SURE I'LL
HAVE THAT SUITABLE FOR THAT
TOUGH ROOM BY EMAIL.
>> OK, NO THANK YOU SO MUCH
RACHEL AND YOU KNOW, DOING A
LOT OF GREAT WORK WITH
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IN TERMS
OF ANN ARE VERY INCLUSIVE.
SO THANK YOU TO SEATON AND
THANK YOU TO TOM HOTALING,
LINDA EVANS, ALL THE
INDIVIDUALS DOING THAT AND THEN
ALSO WANT TO THANK PARTNERS AND
ACCESS FOR, YOU KNOW, YOUR
CONSTANT, YOU KNOW, ABILITY TO
TO YOU KNOW, WORK ON ACCESS TO
ISSUES THAT COME UP IN A CITY.
SO THANK YOU ALL OUR NEXT WELL
THANKS ALEX.
>> I'LL JUST ADD A COUPLE
THINGS FROM THE MEASURE HAD
LAST WEEK.
>> SURE.
WE HAD NOT MET SUMMER BREAK BUT
KATHLEEN AND LARRY JOINED ME
FOR ABOUT 30 MINUTES LAST WEEK
.
I JUST COVERED A COUPLE
OF TOPICS I WANTED TO MENTION.
ONE IS, YOU KNOW, LARRY WILL
PROBABLY TALK A LOT MORE ABOUT
AND SO I'M NOT GOING TO SAY
MUCH BUT CONCERNS RELATED TO
CYCLISTS AND USE OF SIDEWALK
AND HOW THAT CAN BE DANGEROUS
FOR A LOT OF FOLKS WITH
DISABILITIES.
THE SECOND PIECE IS RELATED
SPECIFICALLY KATHLEEN BROUGHT
FORWARD A CONCERN RELATED TO A
CROSSWALK LIGHT THAT WAS
RUNNING REALLY FAST.
>> IT'S IN AN AREA THAT'S
ACTUALLY OUTSIDE OF IN OUR
WORDS IN PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP.
AND SO I HAVE BEEN TALKING TO
SOME FOLKS ABOUT WHO WE CAN
REACH OUT TO TO SEE IF WE CAN'T
GET THAT CROSSWALK THAT
CROSSWALK LIGHT TIMES A LOT
DIFFERENTLY FOR THOSE WHO ARE
INTERESTED, IT'S FOR THE ON
RAMP AT NINETY FOUR AND
OBVIOUSLY ROAD THERE AND WE
HAVE SOME FOLKS WHO ARE USING
THAT PATHWAY QUITE REGULARLY
AND HAVE BEEN EXPERIENCING SOME
REAL DIFFICULTIES WITH GOING
OVER THAT PATHWAY SPECIFICALLY
.
AND THEN LAST I WILL JUST
MENTION I KNOW I'VE BEEN THE
CHAIR OF THIS GROUP FOR AT
LEAST THE LAST YEAR NOW AND I
KNOW THERE ARE SOME NEW FOLKS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE MAY HAVE SOME
FOLKS JOINING US.
WE HAVE HAD A COUPLE OF NEW
MEMBERS IN THE LAST JUST BEFORE
THE BREAK IN THE SUMMER AS
WELL.
IF THERE ARE FOLKS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
OR EVEN CONSIDERING LEADING A
COMMITTEE, I'M HAPPY TO PASS
THAT RESPONSIBILITY ALONG.
SO PLEASE DON'T HESITATE TO
REACH OUT TO ME FOR MORE
INFORMATION AND THAT'S IT.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
I DEFINITELY APPRECIATE THAT.
AND YEAH, I MEAN THAT THAT RAMP
YOU KNOW BETWEEN AND OBVIOUSLY
990 FOR VERY IMPORTANT ACCESS
POINT.
SO I APPRECIATE THE BRINGING
THAT TO THE COMMISSION'S
ATTENTION AND FOR THE WORK THAT
THAT IS BEING DONE THERE AND
ABSOLUTELY AS WE CONTINUE TO
ADD TO THE COMMISSION, I
ENCOURAGE ALL OF THOSE
INTERESTED TO JOIN YOU AND THEN
TO TO BE EAGER TO STEP UP AND
BE A PART OF THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO
RECRUITING ACTIVITY WITH MR.
LARRY KEYLA.
>> YEAH, AS YOU SEE, WE'VE ALL
WE JOE AND I HAVE BEEN BUSY
INTERVIEWING CANDIDATES AND
WE'VE GOT ANOTHER CANDIDATE WE
SHOULD PROBABLY INTERVIEW SOON
AND I THINK WE GOT ANOTHER ONE
IN THE IN THE WING.
SO WE'VE BEEN PRETTY BUSY THE
LAST MONTH OR SO AND BUT THAT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE CAN'T TAKE
ANY MORE ANY MORE CANDIDATES.
>> WE JUST WE'RE BUSY AND WE'VE
GOT A COUPLE EXTRA ONES AND
WE'RE HOPING THAT THEY ARE
GOING TO GO THROUGH THE REST
OF THE PROCESS.
I'M WE'LL VOTE ON THEM LATER ON
AND IF THEY'RE ON WHEN WHEN THE
TIME COMES, IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS RAISED ABOUT THEM AND
THEY'RE STILL THERE, THE
COMMISSIONER SHOULD ASK THEM
QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
AND DON'T GO ANYWHERE.
>> OK, KATHLEEN, YOU HAVE YOUR
HAND UP.
WE'LL JUST HAD A QUICK QUESTION
OF HOW MANY OPEN POSITIONS DO
WE CURRENTLY HAVE ON THE
COMMISSION ONLY RIGHT NOW WE
HAVE FOUR VACANT POSITIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
YES, ALL RIGHT.
AND LARRY, DON'T GO ANYWHERE
BECAUSE ALL RIGHT HERE WE NEED
YOU FOR THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE GOT A LOT GOING BUT THIS IS
A SUMMER SYNOPSIS AND IN OUR
PUBLIC COMMENT IT WAS ADVOCATED
FOR THAT WE HAVE SOMETHING BY
THE TRACKS BY THE TRAIN TRACKS
SO THAT PEOPLE DON'T WANDER OFF
AND DO THEM IN AND THERE'S NO
TRAFFIC CALMING GOING ON.
THIS ONE WAS THAT THIS ONE THE
ONES THAT WERE MENTIONED WERE
AT A PACKARD AND BALDWIN AND
MANCHESTER AND NOTTINGHAM AND
WOODS ARE THERE.
WE'RE WORKING ON WASTE
CROSSWALKS I GUESS PEOPLE CAN
TELL THAT AND SIMILAR SPEED
SPEED HUMPS IN VARIOUS AREAS TO
TO CALM THE TRAFFIC AND THERE
WERE THERE WAS DISCUSSIONS ON
HOW TO IMPLEMENT IN THE
IMPLEMENT THESE THINGS IN
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS AND HOW
TO HOW TO EVALUATE PETITIONS,
YOU KNOW, HOW TO EVALUATE
GETTING PETITIONS PUT UP FOR
BUMPERS AND THERE WAS SOME
TALKS WE ALSO TALKED ABOUT
SELLING A SEAT WITH A FIFTY
FIFTY FIVE PLUS AND PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION USE EMOTION.
THERE'S A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
USE OR MOTION THAT FAILED AND I
CAN'T ALL THAT THAT FAILED
ABOUT 55 OR OLDER BECAUSE WE
HAD A COUPLE OF PEOPLE THAT
WERE OLDER.
FIFTY FIVE YEARS AND OLDER AND
WITH DISABILITIES THAT USE
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION WHATEVER
THAT HAD BEEN ME.
SO THE MOTION FAILED TO FILL
THAT EXTRA SEAT, RESTRICT IT TO
SOMEBODY WHO IS OVER 55 AND A
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION USER AND
THEN THE ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT
MANAGEMENT PLAN PUBLIC BIKE
PARKING WE'RE WORKING ON MORE
PUBLIC BIKE PARKING AND MAKING
ADJUSTMENTS TO WHERE WE'RE
MAKING ADJUSTMENTS TO SOME BUS
ROUTES AND THAT'S A SYNOPSIS
THE REST OF THE REPORT SHOULD
BE IN AND I'M GOING TO ALSO
THIS EVENING I'M GOING TO GO TO
THE TRANSPORTATION MEETING AND
MENTION THE ONRAMP TO THE THE
ONRAMP AN INTERSECTION THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT JUST
A FEW MINUTES
AGO.
AND I'M ALSO GOING TO MENTION
THE BIKE ISSUE BECAUSE THE
ISSUE THAT WE WERE DISCUSSING
HAD TO DO WITH PEOPLE GOING
DOWN AND USING THE SIDEWALKS.
MY MY QUESTION IS WHEN THEY'VE
GOT THESE BIKE LANES, WHY IN
THE WORLD ARE PEOPLE DOWN ON
SCOOTERS AND AND BIKES ON THE
SIDEWALKS LEAVING THEM THERE
AND HITTING HITTING PEOPLE OR
MERELY CLIPPING PEOPLE I'VE
LOST I'VE HAD TO REFER TO CANES
AND THINGS BECAUSE OF TRAFFIC.
THERE WAS A ZOOM THROUGH AND
THINGS THAT THEY OWN THE PLACE
.
SO I'M GOING TO MENTION THAT TO
TRANSPORTATION AND ALSO I'M
GOING TO MENTION I WAS GOING TO
PUT THIS ON ANNOUNCEMENTS BUT
THIS IS SIMILAR TO
TRANSPORTATION.
>> THE LOCAL ADVISER AT THE
LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL TO ATHEA
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS ALESI IS
UNDERGOING SOME CHANGES AND
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR SOME NEW
MEMBERS AND THAT WOULD BE YOU
CAN CONTACT OUR RAVENSWORTH TO
HOWLS AT THE RUG AND FIND OUT
FURTHER INFORMATION.
WE'RE LOOKING FOR NEW BLOOD.
I KNOW BECAUSE SOME OF THE OLD
THAT IS EITHER TAKING A BREAK
OR TAKING BREAKS FROM THERE THE
LONG TERMS THERE WON'T BE
BREAKS FOR SOME TIME AND SO
WE'VE GOT AT LEAST FOUR
POSITIONS THAT WE NEED TO SELL
AND THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> KATHLEEN, YOU HAVE A
THANK YOU.
QUESTION A QUESTION OR SORT
>> KATHLEEN, YOU HAVE A
OF COMMENT FOR LARRY WITH
QUESTION A QUESTION OR SORT
REGARDS TO THE TRANSPORTATION
OF COMMENT FOR LARRY WITH
COMMISSION THIS MEETING?
REGARDS TO THE TRANSPORTATION
YOU KNOW, WE DID HAVE A REALLY
COMMISSION THIS MEETING?
GOOD HEARTY DISCUSSION AT THE
YOU KNOW, WE DID HAVE A REALLY
COMMITTEE WITH REGARDS TO BIKES
GOOD HEARTY DISCUSSION AT THE
ANSCAR AND THINGS USING
COMMITTEE WITH REGARDS TO BIKES
UTILIZING SIDEWALKS AND I'M NOT
ANSCAR AND THINGS USING
SAYING ANN ARBOR DIDN'T DO A
UTILIZING SIDEWALKS AND I'M NOT
WONDERFUL JOB IN TERMS
SAYING ANN ARBOR DIDN'T DO A
OF CONSIDERING BIKERS AS PEOPLE
WONDERFUL JOB IN TERMS
TO USE SCOOTERS AND THINGS LIKE
OF CONSIDERING BIKERS AS PEOPLE
THAT.
TO USE SCOOTERS AND THINGS LIKE
IT LOWERS OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT.
THAT.
THERE ARE SO MANY AMAZING,
IT LOWERS OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT.
WONDERFUL THINGS THAT CAME OUT
THERE ARE SO MANY AMAZING,
OF IT BUT ONE OF THE THINGS
WONDERFUL THINGS THAT CAME OUT
THAT IN MY OBSERVATION THIS IS
OF IT BUT ONE OF THE THINGS
KATHLEEN SPEAKING AS KATHLEEN
THAT IN MY OBSERVATION THIS IS
WITH NO POWER OUT
KATHLEEN SPEAKING AS KATHLEEN
OF COMMISSIONER WE LACK IN
WITH NO POWER OUT
EDUCATION SO WE PUT THESE
OF COMMISSIONER WE LACK IN
WONDERFUL INITIATIVES LIKE A
EDUCATION SO WE PUT THESE
BIKE LANES BUT WHAT SORT
WONDERFUL INITIATIVES LIKE A
OF ACTUAL EDUCATION HAPPENED ON
BIKE LANES BUT WHAT SORT
THE PUBLIC AND YOU DID WE
OF ACTUAL EDUCATION HAPPENED ON
TARGET MOTORISTS AND SAY MY
THE PUBLIC AND YOU DID WE
LANES ARE COMING IN AND
TARGET MOTORISTS AND SAY MY
NAVIGATE THEM?
LANES ARE COMING IN AND
>> DID WE DID WE CONTACT OR
NAVIGATE THEM?
ADVOCATE WITH BIKERS AND
>> DID WE DID WE CONTACT OR
SCOOTERS?
ADVOCATE WITH BIKERS AND
THESE ARE THE LAWS IN THE STATE
SCOOTERS?
OF MICHIGAN.
THESE ARE THE LAWS IN THE STATE
OF AND ARE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THIS IS HOW YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO
BECAUSE I CAN'T TELL YOU BEING
IN A WHEELCHAIR HOW MANY TIMES
I'VE ALMOST HAD MY SERVICE DOG
RUN OVER OR YOU KNOW, BEEN HIT
OR WHATEVER BECAUSE SOMEBODY
HAS BEEN COMING UP ON MY SIX
AND I DON'T HEAR THEM OR
THEY'RE COMING AT ME AND
THEY'RE NOT GIVING ME ANY RIGHT
AWAY.
I'M THE ONE HITTING THE GRASS,
NOT THEM.
THEY SHOULD BE HITTING THE
STREET AND I'M NEAR STATE
STREET SO THERE'S BIKE LANES UP
AND DOWN STREET STREET.
>> SO I GUESS I WOULD WONDER
WHAT THEIR PLAN IS IN TERMS
OF EDUCATION.
I FEEL LIKE THAT'S A HUGE PIECE
THAT THEY'VE MISSED IN THESE
INITIATIVES.
>> YEAH, GREAT.
GREAT POINT, KATHLEEN, YOU
KNOW, I REALLY APPRECIATE YOU
BRINGING THAT TO OUR ATTENTION
BECAUSE EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT
AND I THINK EVERYBODY NEEDS TO
BE ON THE SAME PAGE IN TERMS
OF , YOU KNOW, WHAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN AND WHAT DO PEOPLE DO
AND YEAH, THERE SEEMS TO BE A
DISCONNECT THERE.
THANK YOU, MATTHEW.
>> YOU HAVE YOUR HAND UP.
YEAH, I WANTED TO AMPLIFY WHAT
WAS SAID BY KATHLEEN AND A
LITTLE MORE SOFT SPOKEN MANNER
BY LARRY WHICH IS THIS IS
UNLAWFUL CONDUCT BY BICYCLISTS
THAT IS PUTTING PEOPLE IN
DANGER AND THERE NEEDS TO BE
EITHER ENFORCEMENT OR SOME KIND
OF IT'S JUST NOT ACCEPTABLE
WHAT GOES ON AND THE WAY THAT
THOSE BIKE LANES IS STRUCTURED
IS DEEPLY PROBLEMATIC.
I FEEL WHOEVER OUR LIAISON WITH
THE CITY IS SHOULD ALSO BE
HEARING THIS BECAUSE IT'S A
MAJOR ISSUE AND IT'S EXTREMELY
DISTRESSING TO HEAR WHAT
KATHLEEN IS REPORTING AND SHE'S
JUST ONE INDIVIDUAL IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
>> COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, THANK
YOU AND I'M GLAD TO REPORT THAT
OUR COUNCIL LIAISON IS ON THIS
MEETING AND HAS THEIR HAND UP.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER EDWIN YOU
HAVE A COMMENT EVERYONE FIRSTLY
THANK YOU, KATHLEEN FOR SHARING
THOSE STORIES.
I I'VE BEEN IN SOME TALKS WITH
TRANSPORTATION ABOUT JUST WHAT
HAVE THEIR EDUCATION EFFORTS
BEEN AROUND, YOU KNOW,
BICYCLING IN GENERAL BECAUSE I
AS SOMEONE WHO WORKS IN
DISABILITY POLICY, YOU KNOW, WE
NEED ROBUST SAFE INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT HELPS PEOPLE MOVE AROUND
AND ALL KINDS OF WAYS.
BUT THOSE ARE MOST VULNERABLE
NEED TO BE PROTECTED LIKE
PEOPLE WITH MOBILITY ISSUES,
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES,
WHATEVER IT MAY BE.
>> I THERE THERE WAS SOME
EDUCATION THAT WENT AROUND LIKE
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
VISION ZERO PLAN.
THE PLAN TO GET DOWN TO ZERO
PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENT BUT I AGREE
THERE NEEDS TO BE MORE AND I
AGREE THAT VOICES OF PEOPLE WHO
LIKE FOR EXAMPLE ARE ON THIS
COMMISSION OR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES SHOULD BE PART
OF THAT EDUCATION TO THE
PUBLIC.
SO IT'S SOMETHING I CAN
DEFINITELY CONTACT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION AND
ASK MORE ABOUT BECAUSE I THINK
I THINK IT'S AN IMPORTANT
CONCERN FOR SURE.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW AND I THINK
VICE CHAIRMAN OF TRANSPORTATION
YOU KNOW, COMMISSION MEMBER YOU
KNOW KEILLER I THINK IF YOU
KNOW BOTH OF YOU ARE ABLE TO
JOIN ON THOSE EFFORTS THAT
MIGHT BE HELPFUL MAYBE HAVE YOU
WHAT HAVE BEEN THE
CONVERSATIONS AROUND THIS
EDUCATION AROUND BASICALLY
INFRASTRUCTURE AND AN
ACCESSIBILITY IF YOU ARE
RESPONDING, LARRY, YOU'RE ON
UNMUTED
, YOU'RE STILL ON MEET
HOPEFULLY HOPEFULLY YOU CAN
UNMUTED HERE AND WHILE YOU'RE
FIGURING THAT OUT, LARRY, I'LL
MOVE TO UP THERE WE GO.
>> OH, I LOVE NEWDEGATE SO FAR
I DON'T I HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT
WHERE TO GO ON OUT NOW.
I HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT WHO TO
TALK TO ABOUT THE EDUCATION AND
THE LAWS.
YES.
I'M JUST YOU KNOW, I'M STARTING
TO SEE IT'S BECOMING A BIG
PROBLEM ON THE SIDEWALKS FOR A
LOT OF DIFFERENT PEOPLE AND I
HAVEN'T I DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHERE TO GO YET.
I'LL I'LL CONTACT RAYMOND HAAS
WHO IS THE CITY STAFF THAT'S IN
CHARGE OF TRANSPORTATION AND
BRING UP THIS QUESTION I'LL
BRING A RESPONSE BACK TO ALL
OF YOU.
>> ONE THING I WILL ALSO TALK
TO HIM THIS EVENING THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION IS A
TRAVEL OK, GREAT.
I'D BE REALLY GOOD.
AND IF YOU CAN SEND ME SOME
STUFF TO YEAH.
>> OR EVEN MAYBE INVITE INTO
LIKE A MEETING RIGHT.
>> AN UPCOMING CODE I MEAN YEAH
I CAN DO THAT TOO.
I CAN DO THAT TOO SOMETIMES I
THINK THAT THAT'S WELL CAN YOU
AND THAT WAY YEAH THAT WAY
WE'LL THINK ABOUT IT PRETTY
HARD YOU KNOW.
>> YEAH.
JUST YOU KNOW HAVING TO COME
AND JUST ANSWER SOME QUESTIONS
AND TALK ABOUT A PLAN YOU KNOW
YOU DID MENTION LARRY ABOUT THE
RECENT TRAFFIC CALMING
RESOLUTION AND I WAS A
CO-SPONSOR ON THAT.
I DO THIS IS NOT ABOUT
EDUCATION.
IT'S ABOUT SAFETY AND TRAFFIC
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TRAFFIC
CONTROL THAT IS SO THAT
RESOLUTION WAS PUT FORTH
BASICALLY TO CHANGE THE PROCESS
LIKE RIGHT NOW FOR AN EXISTING
STREET TO BE CONSIDERED FOR
SPEED BUMPS OR BUMP OUT OR CURB
CUTS OR WHATEVER IT MAY BE
CROSSWALKS IT HAS TO GO THROUGH
A PETITION PROCESS WHERE A
RESIDENT HAS TO BRING IT
FORWARD AND THEN FIFTY PERCENT
OF THE RESIDENTS IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE TO AGREE AND
THIS RESOLUTION CHANGED IT SO
THAT IT BASICALLY GIVES OUR
TRANSPORTATION STAFF OR
ENGINEERS THE POWER TO EVALUATE
FOR DIFFERENT TYPES OF TRAFFIC
COMING ADDITION DURING ANY
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
SO IF LIKE A ROAD BEING
RESURFACED LIKE THEM DOING IT
ON THE FRONT END AND FROM A
DISABILITY AND IT DOESN'T
COMPLETELY TAKE OUT THE ABILITY
FOR RESIDENTS TO BRING THINGS
UP.
BUT FROM A DISABILITY JUSTICE
PERSPECTIVE, I THINK THE ONUS
TO MAKE SURE OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
IS SAFE AND COMPREHENSIVE
SHOULDN'T FALL RESIDENTS TRAVEL
ON THOSE WITH POWER AND MONEY
THE RESOURCES, THOSE WHO WORK
AT THE CITY AND IT ALSO
SHOULDN'T BE UP FOR LIKE A VETO
VOTE WHICH IS CURRENTLY THE
CASE.
LIKE IF I HAVE 50 PERCENT
DOESN'T GO THROUGH AND THAT'S
BEEN AN ISSUE IT'S BEEN A
SAFETY ISSUE.
SO THIS IS CHANGING THAT
PROCESS SO THAT YOU KNOW, AGAIN
CITY ENGINEERS CAN BRING IT ON
THE FRONT END.
SO YEAH, BUT YOU KNOW WHAT THAT
THAT RESOLUTION WAS ABOUT
BETTER COMMUNICATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFETY
EFFORTS FROM THE GET GO AND I
THINK THERE'S DEFINITELY A
PLACE FOR CONVERSATION THAT
HASN'T HAPPENED YET ON OUTREACH
EDUCATION, IMPACT OF THIS
INFRASTRUCTURE AND PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES ON EVERYONE.
>> SO LARRY, YOU TALK TO
RAYMOND AND I'LL TALK TO
RAYMOND.
>> HOW'S THAT SOUND?
THERE YOU GO.
OK, LONG TIME NO PROBLEM.
>> MAYBE
ON FRIDAY.
>> OCTOBER ?
OH YEAH THAT YEAH THAT WOULD BE
GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I KNOW
YOU HAD YOUR HAND UP AND THEN
THE ARM GOT TIRED AND YOU PUT
IT DOWN.
DO YOU STILL HAVE A COMMENT OR
NO MAYBE I CAN INTRODUCE IT
UNDER OLD BUSINESS.
SOUNDS GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I'D LIKE TO GO TO YOU
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON FOR THE
EUROZONE COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS MEETING UPDATE THOUGH
ACTUALLY QUITE A LOT TO REPORT.
IT WAS A VERY BUSY MEETING AND
EXTREMELY INFORMATIVE MEETING
SO I'D LIKE TO KIND OF JUST
MAKE YOU AWARE OF A FEW THINGS
IF YOU WANT TO FOLLOW UP WITH
ME, I'D BE HAPPY TO DISCUSS
FURTHER OR SHARE SOME RESOURCES
BUT I FOUND IT EXTREMELY
INFORMATIVE.
>> THERE WAS SEVERAL
PRESENTERS, THE FIRST OF WHOM
WAS STEPHANIE ROSEN WHO IS THE
I.T. ACCESSABILITY ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR AND IS CHARGED WITH
MAKING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
AT U OF M IS ACCESSING AS
POSSIBLE.
SO THAT'S A MASSIVE EFFORT AND
ENCOMPASSES MANY, MANY ASPECTS
OF THE UNIVERSITY'S DAILY
ACTIVITIES AND THEY'RE ACTIVELY
SEEKING INPUT FROM THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY.
SO THEY'RE TRYING TO FORM A
DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY LIAISON
NETWORK TO REALLY MAKE SURE
THAT THEIR EFFORTS ARE
COMPREHENSIVE, DIRECTED IN THE
RIGHT WAYS.
AND SO THAT'S AN EXCITING
DEVELOPMENT AND ONE WHICH I
WILL KEEP YOU POSTED ABOUT.
WE ALSO HEARD FROM TWO ASL
INTERPRETER WHO ARE EMPLOYED BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
JUST EXTREMELY INFORMATIVE TO
HEAR A BIT ABOUT ASL FOR THOSE
OF US WHO ARE NOT FLUENT IN
ASL, SOME OF THE NUANCES
OF THAT SOME TREMENDOUSLY
USEFUL TIPS FOR INTERACTING
WITH DEAF INDIVIDUALS, SOME
STEREOTYPICAL BEHAVIORS WHICH
ARE JUST NOT APPROPRIATE LIKE
OVEREMPHASIZING ONES, WORDS OR
SPEAKING SLOWLY IS NOT A
PARTICULARLY EFFECTIVE WAY TO
COMMUNICATE WITH DEAF
INDIVIDUALS.
>> AND THE LAST THING I'LL SORT
OF INCLUDE HERE IS THE
FORMATION OF A UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CENTER FOR
DISABILITY HEALTH AND WELLNESS
AND YOU CAN FIND THIS ONLINE.
THIS WAS TO ME ENTIRELY NEW
THAT THERE WOULD BE A CENTER
FOR DISABILITY HEALTH AND
WELLNESS THAT ACKNOWLEDGES THE
LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT ARE LIVING WITH
VARIOUS DISABILITIES AND TO
CENTER HEALTH AND WELLNESS
AGAIN, IT'S AN INITIATIVE THAT
I'M LOOKING FOR TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT AND I WANTED TO SHARE
THAT WITH YOU.
THE LAST IS MORE JUST A
REMINDER THAT THIS IS NATIONAL
DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT AWARENESS
MONTH.
SO THAT IS AN ISSUE THAT
CONCERNS ALL OF US AND IT IS
THE MONTH IN WHICH WE ARE ASKED
WITH THE REST OF OUR FELLOW
CITIZENS TO THINK IN PARTICULAR
ABOUT ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, MATTHEW.
AND BEFORE I MAKE ANY MORE
COMMENTS, I KNOW WE HAVE A HAND
UP RACHEL HAWKINS.
>> THANKS, MATTHEW.
I APPRECIATE IT.
I JUST HAD A QUICK QUESTION SO
HAVING BEEN IN SOME OF THE
DISCUSSIONS LIKE ON THE
MICHIGAN MEDICINE SIDE ABOUT
THE THE DISABILITY HEALTH
CENTER, I KNOW IT'S AN IDEA
THEY'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT FOR
A WHILE BUT WE'VE NOT GOTTEN TO
THE POINT THAT WE HAVE A
PHYSICAL BUILDING UNLESS
THERE'S SOME NEW INFORMATION ON
THAT.
>> SO IT'S YOU KNOW, A LOT
OF IT IS PRIMARILY RESEARCH
BASED IN TERMS WHAT I'M
FOLLOWING LIKE INTERNALLY THERE
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY LIKE
TANGIBLE RESOURCES YET BUT I I
KNOW THAT THEY WANT TO GET
THERE.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
UPDATES ON KIND OF THE STATUS
THAT I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW SO
CLEARLY MY OPTIMISM NEEDS TO BE
TEMPERED BY SOMEONE WHO KNOWS
MORE ABOUT THIS THAN I DO.
I ONLY KNOW WHAT I HEARD.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THIS EITHER
IS THE MEETING IN WHICH THIS
MIGHT HAVE BEEN BROUGHT UP
BEFORE BUT THIS WAS NEWS TO ME
AS FAR AS I KNOW THERE HAVE
BEEN THE CREATION OF THIS
WEBSITE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT RESOURCES ARE
THERE.
AND AGAIN I DEFER TO YOU
BECAUSE IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE
MUCH BETTER INFORMED ABOUT IF
THERE'S A PHYSICAL PLAN
INVOLVED THERE'S A STAFF
INVOLVED BECAUSE THAT WAS NOT
DISCUSSED IN ANY DETAIL.
>> I FEEL LIKE ALL I HEARD
ABOUT BEFORE WAS THE WEBSITE
BUT I DON'T THINK THEY HAVE
LIKE ANY FULL TIME STAFF
WORKING WITHIN IT IF THAT MAKES
SENSE UNLESS KATHLEEN HAS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THAT SHE
MAY KNOW FROM ALL OF HER CFTC
EXPERIENCE.
>> NO, I HEARD EVERYTHING THAT
MATTHEW HEARD AND IT WAS MY
INTERPRETATION AS WELL.
SO IT'LL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
HOW IT ALL FALLS OUT.
>> I ALSO KNOW THAT I THINK PAM
MCGINTY THE THE CHAIR ONE
OF THE CO-CHAIRS OF THE CFTC
USUALLY SENDS OUT HER NOTES
PERHAPS SOMETHING MIGHT BE IN
THERE THAT MIGHT HAVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE INFORMATION.
I THINK THAT COMES UP FAIRLY
SOON.
IT COULD BE SENT TO THE ENTIRE
COMMISSION.
>> THANKS FOR THAT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION CERTAINLY HAPPY TO
SHARE THE SLIDES WHEN THOSE ARE
THEY MAY HAVE ALREADY BEEN
RELEASED AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE THE QUESTIONS
BECAUSE THIS GIVES FOLLOW UP
WHEN WHEN WE RETURN TO CFTC TO
KIND OF KEEP TRACKING THIS, I
SUGGEST TAKING A LOOK THE VIDEO
ON THE WEBSITE AND JUST SEE IF
THERE'S ANYTHING THERE.
>> BUT I'M HAPPY TO SHOW THE
SLIDES AS WELL.
THANK YOU SO THANK YOU.
SORRY.
>> GO AHEAD.
I WAS JUST SAYING THANK YOU TO
NO PROBLEM.
LOT OF GOOD THINGS GOING AROUND
FOLKS BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT
OF GOOD WORK BEING DONE.
YES INDEED.
I COUNSEL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
I CAN'T SAY ENOUGH HOW
WONDERFUL THAT IS TO HEAR THAT
THEY'RE YOU KNOW, DOING THIS
CENTER FOR DISABILITY HEALTH
AND WELLNESS.
MATTHEW?
YES.
PLEASE KEEP EVERYONE INFORMED
OF THAT.
WHAT A GREAT DEVELOPMENT AND
THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR WORK
IN SITTING ON THE COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS NEXT.
I DON'T KNOW DO WE HAVE THE
REPORT FOR THE DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY?
>> SO I WAS GOING TO SAY OR TO
NOT BE HERE TODAY BUT COUNCIL
MEMBER KATHY EVERYONE WOULD
GIVE THE UPDATE.
>> I'LL CHECK.
OK, OK SO UNFORTUNATELY SHE
COULDN'T JOIN US BUT SHE DID
WANT ME TO SHARE AN UPDATE ON
THE HIRING OF AN ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR WHICH THEY HAVE
FOUND A CANDIDATE AND THEY HAVE
BEEN OFFERED THE POSITION THEY
ACCEPTED AND THE PERSON WILL
BEGIN ON OCTOBER 2ND.
SO IT'S EXCITING AND WE'LL
LEARN MORE I'M SURE IN THE
COMING WEEKS.
BUT LIKE THIS IS THAT CITY'S
FIRST EVER DISABILITY FOCUSED
POSITION BESIDES THE ADA
COORDINATOR WHICH IS FEDERALLY
REQUIRED AND AS SOMEONE WHO
TAKES COMPLAINTS AROUND ADA
VIOLATIONS ON PUBLIC ON FEDERAL
PROPERTY ANYWAY LONG TANGENT
BOTTOM LINE THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THAT WE HAVE SOMEONE
DISABILITY FOCUS TO JUST HELP
OUR RESIDENTS.
SO WE DID REALLY GOOD WORK GUYS
.
>> YOU SHOULD BE PROUD.
YEAH YOU DID.
ALL OF YOU SHOULD BE VERY
PROUD.
AMAZING.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE OUR
BICENTENNIAL TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
AND ONE HUNDRED AND NINETY NINE
YEARS OF OUR CITY.
WE ARE MAKING HISTORY SO
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL OF YOU.
>> IT IS AN HONOR.
YEAH WE GOT YES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WITH THAT I WANTED TO MOVE
ON TO THE CITY PERSONNEL REPORT
WITH KENNEDY.
HI EVERYONE.
I KNOW I HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE
TO FORMALLY INTRODUCE MYSELF TO
THE COMMISSION SO I WANTED TO
TAKE THIS TIME AND DO THAT.
MY NAME IS KENNEDY BLAIR
CUMMINGS.
I AM THE OFFICE MANAGER FOR THE
COMMISSION.
I HAVE BEEN IN THE POSITION NOW
SINCE JUNE.
I'M VERY EXCITED TO BE A PART
OF THE COMMISSION AND I'M
HELPING TO ASSIST IN ANY WAY
THAT I CAN IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR NEED ANY
ASSISTANCE OR WANT TO STOP BY I
AM HERE IN CITY HALL ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO GETTING
TO KNOW EACH AND EVERY ONE
OF YOU AND I'M HAPPY TO ASSIST
THE COMMISSION AND I HAVE NO
REPORT.
>> OK, AND I AND I AM SO SORRY
.
YES.
I DON'T KNOW PARDON MY FAUX PAS
EVERYBODY BUT YES THIS IS
KENNEDY ARE COMING THAT SHE IS
OUR NEW OFFICE MANAGER FOR THE
COMMISSIONS TOOK THAT FILLED
THE GINORMOUS SHOES OF DENISE
GINS THAT SHE IS DOING IN MY
OPINION A FANTASTIC JOB THUS
FAR.
AND I ENCOURAGE ALL OF YOU IF
YOU DO HAVE QUESTIONS, REACH
OUT TO KENNEDY JUST AS YOU HAD
WITH A NIECE AND A KENNEDY.
WELL, WE'LL GET THE JOB DONE.
>> SO THANK YOU SO MUCH,
KENNEDY, FOR ALL OF YOUR WORK.
HAPPY TO BE HERE.
WELCOME
.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CHAIR REPORT
AND I WANTED TO FIRST OF ALL
JUST SAY THAT I AM JUST SO
EXCITED TO BE BACK WITH ALL
OF YOU AFTER OUR SUMMER RECESS
TO SORT OF , YOU KNOW, GET
THINGS ROLLING HERE.
AND FIRST OFF, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON ACTUALLY ACTUALLY
MENTIONED, YOU KNOW, JUST THE
NATIONAL DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT
AWARENESS MONTH.
I WAS GOING TO TALK ABOUT THAT
AND ALSO THAT YOU ALLUDED TO IT
AS WELL.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY YES,
YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD BE, YOU
KNOW, ENCOURAGED THAT COMING UP
WE SHOULD DEFINITELY PROMOTE
THAT.
YOU KNOW, NEEDHAM IS VERY
IMPORTANT AND I HOPE THAT WE'RE
ALL, YOU KNOW, PROUD BEING ABLE
TO SUPPORT THAT AS THAT COMES
ABOUT NEXT.
I WANTED TO REPORT THAT I WAS
VERY, VERY PROUD TO HAVE THE
COMMISSION RECEIVE A
ACCESSABILITY VOTING ORDINANCE
AND WE ARE WE WERE AWARDED THAT
AS A COMMISSION FROM MAYOR
TAYLOR RECENTLY AND I JUST WANT
TO GIVE YOU ALL THE CREDIT TO
ALL OF YOU AND OUR COMMISSION
FOR THE SUPPORT THAT YOU'VE
GIVEN ALL OF US AND MYSELF TO
UNDERSTANDING THE IMPORTANCE
OF ACCESSIBILITY IN OUR CITY
AND THE IMPORTANCE ACCESSIBLE
OF VOTING AT ALL OF OUR POLLING
LOCATIONS AROUND THE CITY.
AND I DIDN'T WANT TO I DIDN'T
WANT TO STEAL COUNCIL MEMBER
EDWINS THUNDER AS SHE DOES HAVE
ANOTHER REPORT TO DO AFTER
MYSELF.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO THANK THE
CITY BUT ALSO THANK ALL OF YOU
FOR YOUR CONTINUED EFFORTS AND
YOUR SUPPORT IN OUR EFFORTS TO
MAKE THE CITY ACCESSIBLE AND
EQUITABLE FOR ALL.
AND AGAIN, ALL OF YOU SHOULD
FEEL VERY, VERY PROUD OF THE
ACCOMPLISHMENT.
SO ALTHOUGH I WAS THERE
ACCEPTING THE PRESENTATION,
PLEASE KNOW THAT ALL OF YOU
WERE WITH ME AND I GIVE ALL
OF YOU THE CREDIT ON THAT.
FINALLY I HAVE ONE MORE BIT
OF NEWS AND I'M ACTUALLY GOING
TO SEND THIS OUT THROUGH EMAIL
AS SOON AS I CAN, PREFERABLY
LATER THIS EVENING OR TOMORROW
MORNING.
BUT INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, I WAS
MADE AWARE OF THE DELTA DENTAL
FOUNDATION AND THEY'RE DOING A
PHOTO SHOOT WITH THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH POSITIVE EXPOSURE AND
POSITIVE EXPOSURE IS A
NONPROFIT WHICH PROMOTES A MORE
INCLUSIVE WORLD THROUGH AWARD
WINNING PHOTOGRAPHY AND THEY'VE
COLLABORATED GLOBALLY TO
PROMOTE A MORE EQUITABLE AND
COMPASSIONATE WORLD WHERE
INDIVIDUALS AND COMMUNITIES WHO
ARE ARE UPPER UNDERREPRESENTED.
EXCUSE ME ARE EMBRACED AND
CELEBRATED.
SO NOW POSITIVE EXPOSURE IS
COMING TO DETROIT, MICHIGAN ON
OCTOBER TWENTY SECOND AND ALSO
MARQUETTE, MICHIGAN ON NOVEMBER
5TH AND THEY'LL BE DOING A FREE
PHOTO SHOOT OF PEOPLE OF ALL
AGES WITHIN THE DISABILITY
COMMUNITY AND THEY WILL RECEIVE
DIGITAL COPIES OF THEIR PHOTOS
AT NO CHARGE AND ALSO SELECT
IMAGES OF THIS PARTICULAR PHOTO
SHOOT WILL BE PRINTED AND MADE
AVAILABLE FOR NON NON PROFIT
DENTAL CLINICS TO DISPLAY AS A
POSITIVE REPRESENTATION
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
SO IMAGES WILL BE FEATURED IN
SORT OF A PRINT PIECE
HIGHLIGHTING THE IMPORTANCE
OF DENTAL CARE FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES THAT WILL BE GIVEN
TO GRADUATING DENTAL STUDENTS
AND ALSO LEGISLATORS.
SO I WILL SEND OUT THAT
INFORMATION IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
THE FREE PHOTO SHOOT AND YEAH,
I THINK IT'S JUST A FUN
OPPORTUNITY FREE OPPORTUNITY.
YOU GET A FREE HEADSHOT FOR
YOUR LINKEDIN OR ANY
PROFESSIONAL PORTFOLIO AND THEN
THAT CAN ALSO BE USED FOR SOME
OTHER PURPOSES.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS, YOU HAVE
A QUESTION?
>> YES.
JUST ABOUT THE DELTA DENTAL
PIECE SO JUST REALLY GLAD TO
HEAR THAT NEWS .
IT'S A HUGE EQUITY ISSUE IN
TERMS OF IN TERMS OF PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES, PEOPLE WHO
ARE LOW INCOME DISABILITIES.
SO I'M GLAD TO HEAR THAT
THEY'RE THEY'RE DOING THIS.
HAS THERE BEEN IS THERE BEEN
DISCUSSION IN TERMS OF LIKE
INCLUDING PEOPLE YOU KNOW WITH
ALL LEVELS OF DISABILITY?
>> I'M JUST CURIOUS BECAUSE
LIKE MY SISTER HAS A HARD TIME
GOING TO THE DENTIST NEEDS
SEDATION.
>> SO I'VE I'VE LIVED THE
DENTAL LIFE, YOU KNOW, IN TERMS
OF HER EXPERIENCES AND SO LIKE
I THINK THERE'S DEFINITELY A
WIDE WIDE ARRAY OF EXPERIENCES
AROUND DENTAL CARE AND
DISABILITY.
SO I'M JUST GLAD TO SEE IT
BEING RECOGNIZED.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY AND GREAT
POINT.
I MEAN TO MY KNOWLEDGE FROM THE
INFORMATION THAT I'VE RECEIVED
RACHEL, IT IS OPEN TO ALL
VARYING INDIVIDUALS RIGHT WITH
DISABILITIES.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT THERE'S
ANY SPECIFIC YOU KNOW, SPECULAR
ATION OF WHETHER YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A MOBILITY DISABILITY OR
WHAT HAVE YOU.
I THINK IT'S OPEN TO ALL
INDIVIDUALS AND IN IN THAT
SECTOR I'LL SEND IT OUR WAY.
HOPEFULLY ALL OF YOU CAN SIGN
UP AND WE CAN ALL SEE YOUR
PEARLY WHITES IN MANY DIFFERENT
WAYS.
ABSOLUTELY.
FINALLY FOLKS IN THE CHAIR
REPORT AS YOU KNOW, EARLIER IN
OUR MEETING TODAY WE HAD OUR
CANDIDATES WHO WERE UP FOR THE
COMMISSION PRESENT EARLIER AND
AS THE CHAIRMAN I WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO VOTE ON THESE
CANDIDATES TODAY THAT THEY BE
VOTED ON TO AND APPROVED BY OUR
COMMISSION TO JOIN SO THAT THEY
CAN BE THEN THEIR APPLICATIONS
CAN THEN BE PUT FORWARD TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR FORMAL APPROVAL.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID, UNDER
THE CHAIR REPORT, I WOULD LIKE
TO YOU KNOW, MAKE A MOTION TO
APPROVE MISS CHAMBERS AS WELL
AS MR. PACARD FOUR SEATS ON THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
.
LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE A QUESTION
REALLY QUICK.
SO I MISS RADCLYFFE.
>> IT'S JUST REALLY QUICK.
IF WE VOTE YES TODAY, COULD IT
BE ON THE AGENDA FOR MONDAY'S
MEETING CITY COUNCIL MEETING
NOW WILL WILL HAPPEN IS ONCE
THE COMMISSION VOTES TODAY IF
THEY WOULD LIKE TO MOVE THE
APPLICANT FORWARD, I WOULD THEN
CONTACT THE CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
AND LET THEM KNOW AND THEN THE
CITY COUNCIL LIAISON WILL THEN
HAVE TO VOTE AND THEN ONCE THEY
VOTE ON AND APPROVE THE
CANDIDATE THEN IT WILL GO TO
CITY COUNCIL.
SO IT REALLY DEPENDS ON THE
RESPONSE FROM THE COUNCIL
LIAISON AND THEN FROM THERE WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO PUT IT ON THE
AGENDA.
OK, AND SO I HAVE GO AHEAD.
GO AHEAD.
I HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY TO HIM.
WE CAN'T VOTE ON BOTH OF THEM.
>> WE HAVE TO VOTE ON ONE AT A
TIME.
I WOULD THINK NO, THAT'S FINE.
SO LET'S LET'S DO A VOTE ON ONE
AT A TIME THEN AND SHOULD THEY
BE PRESENT?
>> THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE.
YEAH.
I MEAN YOU GUYS YOU DON'T HAVE
TO TO BE PRESENT FOR US AT BOTH
STILL HERE THEY ARE.
>> OH OK.
WELL ROB WE COULD ASK YOU BOTH
TO TO SIGN OFF THEN WE CAN DO
YOUR INDIVIDUAL VOTES FROM THE
COMMISSION AND THEN WE WILL BE
IN TOUCH WITH YOU WITH THE
RESULTS.
AND ROB, I WILL BE IN TOUCH
WITH YOU ALL ON ONCE THE VOTE
IS FINALIZED AND THEN THE NEXT
STEPS AFTER THAT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
NICE TO MEET YOU BOTH
.
>> YEAH.
PARDON ME GUYS.
I'M SORRY I DIDN'T REALIZE THEY
WERE ON THE MEETING MOST OF THE
TIME HERE BUT YEAH.
SO I GUESS I WOULD LIKE TO THEN
START WITH CANDIDATE CHAMBERS
AND YOU KNOW HER BEING A
COMMISSIONER AND HAVING A SEAT
YOU KNOW I'M IN SUPPORT OF HER.
I THINK WITH HER BEING
PASSIONATE ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY
,PASSIONATE ABOUT WHAT WE DO
ALSO BEING FAMILIAR WITH OUR
CITY BEING A LIFELONG IN OUR
BOROUGH.
YOU I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, SHE
REALLY FITS GREAT WITH OUR
COMMISSION AND CAN REALLY BE AN
ASSET SO YOU KNOW, AT THIS
POINT I'D LIKE TO OPEN IT UP TO
TO A VOTE AND I LARRY, DO YOU
HAVE ANY COMMENTS AS SOMEONE
WHO HAD SOME DISCUSSIONS WITH
BOTH THESE INDIVIDUALS, I WOULD
WELCOME YOUR COMMENTS.
NO, I WOULD I WOULD I WOULD
AGREE.
>> I THINK I THINK SHE WOULD BE
A GOOD FIT.
I JUST PERSONALLY I'D LIKE TO
SAY THAT I THINK BOTH
CANDIDATES IN THIS CASE WOULD
BE A GOOD FIT ACTUALLY OK WITH
THAT.
SO YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO VOTE
ON CANDIDATE ELENA CHAMBERS AND
SO YEAH WE CAN ALL
YOU KNOW IF
WE ARE ALL IN FAVOR OR VOTING
IN ELENA CHAMBERS AS A
COMMISSIONER I WOULD UNMUTED
AND SAY I IF THERE ARE ANY THAT
HAVE QUESTIONS PLEASE LET US
KNOW I I I I I I I DID WANT TO
SAY I HAD UNFORTUNATELY MISSED
THE PRESENTATIONS BUT I I
DEEPLY VALUE ALL OF YOUR GUYS
THIS INPUT FROM RESPONSES AND
THEY BOTH SOUND LIKE THEY WOULD
BE GREAT ON THE QUESTION AND
I'D LIKE TO TO VOTE
AFFIRMATIVELY SO WE CAN MOVE
THEM FORWARD.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
YEAH AND I AND I JUST WANT
HONESTLY LIKE YOU KNOW I'VE
LOOKED OVER THEIR APPLICATIONS
AND I WAS VERY THOROUGH YOU
KNOW I THINK LARRY IS OUR
RECRUITMENT PERSON DID A
WONDERFUL JOB YOU KNOW, GOING
THROUGH THE APPLICATION AND
MAKING SURE THAT THEY WERE
QUALIFIED YOU GUYS.
SO YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT YOU TO
KNOW THAT THERE IS AMPLE, AMPLE
PROCESSES DONE HERE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THESE INDIVIDUALS
WERE WERE A GOOD FIT FOR THEM
AND OF COURSE ALL THOSE IT
REMAINS TO BE SAID THAT IF
THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS AFTER
THEY ARE AFTER THEY'RE
INTRODUCED, WHAT AT THIS
MEETING IF THERE WERE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE, YOU
COULD THAT WOULD BE YOUR TIME
TO ASK THE QUESTIONS TO HAVE
YOUR INPUT IF YOU WANT.
THANK ASIA YOU HAVE A QUESTION
NOW OBVIOUSLY A NON-VOTING
MEMBER BUT JUST A QUICK
CLARIFYING QUESTION HOW LONG OR
TERMS ARE THEY TO THREE YEARS?
I THINK CLEO'S RIGHT TO YEARS
WITH THE TEN YEARS AND THEN YOU
HAVE TO REAPPLY.
>> YOU CAN GET ANOTHER THREE
YEARS.
OK, OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO GOOD.
GLAD TO HEAR THAT.
AND LINDA CHAMBERS IS APPROVED
NEXT TIME I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO
TO ROB PACKARD ON PERSONALLY
I'VE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
INTERVIEW THIS CANDIDATE THE
MOMENT I INTERACTED WITH THE
GENTLEMAN AT THIS PAST YEAR I
WAS VERY TAKEN ABACK A VERY
GOOD WAY OF HOW ENTHUSIASTIC HE
WAS TO EVEN KNOW ABOUT OUR
COMMISSION NUMBER ONE.
BUT THEN ALSO HOW PASSIONATE HE
WAS ABOUT LIKE INDIVIDUALS
KNOWING ABOUT RESOURCES,
KNOWING WHERE TO GO.
BUT THEN ALSO HE GOES WOW, HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS.
ZACH, THAT YOU KNOW,
INDIVIDUALS KNOW THAT THEY HAVE
THESE RESOURCES FOR ME AS A
PERSON, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU WHEN
YOU DON'T HAVE A DISABILITY
THEN YOU BECOME DISABLED TO
KNOW WHERE TO GO.
AND HE SAID I'M VERY PASSIONATE
ABOUT BEING ABLE TO SERVE WITH
YOU ON THE COMMISSION AND
GIVING PEOPLE DISABILITIES IN
THE CITY, YOU KNOW, MORE ACCESS
TO RESOURCES.
I SAID EXACTLY.
SO I FEEL VERY, VERY CONFIDENT
THAT ROB CAN ALSO BE A VERY
GOOD COMMISSIONER THAT HE COULD
POSSIBLY YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT
TO PUT HIM IN ROLES BUT I THINK
HE COULD SERVE VERY WELL ON THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS COMMITTEE
AS WELL BECAUSE HE TOLD ME
ABOUT DIFFERENT ISSUES HE'S HAD
IN TERMS OF ACCESS AROUND THE
CITY.
SO I THINK HE COULD ALSO SERVE
YOU VERY WELL ON THIS
COMMISSION AND YOU KNOW, I'D
LIKE TO OPEN IT TO A VOTE FOR
ROB PACARD.
WE COULD ALL ON MUTE AND ALL IN
FAVOR OF VOTING IN ROB PACARD
TO BE COMMISSIONER ON
DISABILITY ISSUES PLEASE ON
MUTE AND SAY ON AY AY AY AY
JUST IN CASE YOU WANT TO KNOW.
I ALSO I MET THIS GUY ABOUT SIX
,SIX OR SEVEN MONTHS BEFORE I
MET HIM AND I GO WITH HIM WE
ACTUALLY DROP HIM OFF SOMEWHERE
AND HE YEAH I THOUGHT IT'D BE A
GOOD TOO I WAS SURPRISED TO SEE
WAS ACTUALLY BECAUSE I MUST
HAVE MISSED THE TALK I MUST
HAVE MISSED YOU TALKING WITH
HIM ZACH AT THE VENDOR FAIR I
MUST HAVE WENT OUT FOR MY TRY
TO FIND SOME AID OR SOMETHING
YOU'RE DOING THAT.
SO I WAS GLAD TO SEE HE WAS PUT
FORWARD FOR OUR COMMISSION.
>> YEAH ABSOLUTELY.
AGAIN, YOU KNOW I'M JUST VERY
EXCITED FOR ALL OF US THAT WE
HAVE TWO EAGER INDIVIDUALS THAT
ARE WILLING TO COME IN AND HELP
US AND THEY ARE ENTHUSIASTIC TO
GET INVOLVED.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT'S
IMPORTANT AND THE WORK THAT
WE'RE DOING AND I THINK ALL
OF YOU CAN BE GREAT EXAMPLES TO
BOTH IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
WHAT IT MEANS TO LEAN INTO THE
WORK, WHAT IT MEANS TO BE
PASSIONATE ABOUT OUR CITY ACT.
WOULD IT BE EQUITABLE AND
INCLUSIVE SO HOPEFULLY THEY CAN
ALL REACH OUT TO YOU TO ONCE
ONCE THEY'RE FULLY APPROVED AND
WE CAN GO FROM THERE.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT THAT IS ALL I HAVE
FOR THE CHAIR REPORTED THIS
TIME.
SO I WANT TO THINK EVERYBODY AT
THAT AT THIS POINT
UNFORTUNATELY YOU GUYS I DO
HAVE TO JUMP ON TO ANOTHER
MEETING THAT I HAVE.
BUT VICE CHAIRMAN, IF YOU COULD
TAKE OVER AT THE CITY COUNCIL A
DATE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER EDWYN
AND HAVE HER UPDATE OUR
COMMISSION THAT WOULD BE GREAT
.
AND COUNCIL MEMBER, I JUST WANT
TO THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR
WORK AND EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE
DOING IN YOU KNOW, IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES.
IT'S BEEN YOU VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT AND I'M SO GRATEFUL
AND I THINK OUR FULL COMMISSION
IS GRATEFUL FOR YOU.
SO I APOLOGIZE THAT I DO HAVE
TO JUMP OFF PRIOR TO YOUR
REPORT.
BUT THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR
WORK.
OK, THANKS.
AND IT'S ALL IT'S ALL REALLY
ALL OF YOU.
>> SO I HAVE A FEW UPDATES I
WANT TO BE YOU KNOW I'M NOT
GOING TO BE TOO OVERLY DETAILED
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE'RE ALL
TIRED END OF THE MEETING SO WE
PASSED YOU KNOW IT WAS I THINK
IT WAS JUST MENTIONED
DISABILITY VOTING RIGHTS WEEK
NATION WHICH ZACH CAME IN HE
ACCEPTED AND THAT WAS IN
RECOGNITION OF DISABILITY
VOTING RIGHTS WEEK WHICH BEGAN
SEPTEMBER ELEVENTH AND THAT
CAME OUT OF I HAD A LOT OF HELP
WRITING IT FROM MY ORGANIZATION
DETROIT DISABILITY POWER WHICH
TO GIVE YOU ALL JUST SOME
BACKGROUND INFORMATION LAST
NOVEMBER DURING THE TWENTY
TWENTY TWO ELECTION MY
ORGANIZATION WITH THE CARTER
CENTER AUDITED TWO HUNDRED
SIXTY ONE POLLING LOCATIONS
ACROSS FIFTEEN JURISDICTIONS IN
SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN.
SO THIS WAS METRO DETROIT
POLLING LOCATIONS NOT INCLUDING
IN ARBOR AND THEY WERE AUDITED
FOR FOUR MAIN CRITERIA RELATED
TO ACCESSIBILITY.
THERE'S A FULL REPORT AND I CAN
FORWARD IT TO YOU GUYS AND IT
FOUND THAT ONLY SIX PERCENT
OF POLLING LOCATIONS WERE FULLY
ACCESSIBLE AND THAT IS HORRIBLE
AND IT THIS WAS THE LARGEST
AUDIT TO EVER BE DONE ON
ACCESSIBILITY IN THE NATION.
NOW TODAY MIRRORS PREVIOUS
AUDITS THAT WERE THAT HAVE BEEN
DONE.
USUALLY THE RATE OF ACCESSIBLE
VOTING IS ONLY 16 PERCENT
DESPITE YOU KNOW, WE HAVE A
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF PEOPLE
IN MICHIGAN WHO HAVE A
DISABILITY.
>> SO THIS PROCLAMATION WAS
WRITTEN AND ACKNOWLEDGED THAT
IF WE WERE TO REMOVE THESE
BARRIERS PEOPLE DISABILITIES AS
A VOTING BLOCK IN AN ELECTION.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT STUFF THAT
HAPPENED AND THEN I WAS VERY
HONORED TO HAVE THE HELP
OF ALEX GOSSAGE AND ZACH AND
THE DISABILITY NETWORK
WASHTENAW MCCOMBE LIVINGSTON
AND DETROIT DISABILITY POWER
AND HELPING ME WRITE A
RESOLUTION CALLING ON THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE TO PHASE
OUT SUB MINIMUM WAGE AND SOME
MINIMUM WAGE IS THE CURRENT
PRACTICE OF ALLOWING AN
EMPLOYER LIKE A BUSINESS TO
OBTAIN SOMETHING CALLED A
FOURTEEN C CERTIFICATE FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR TO
ESSENTIALLY PAY PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES WORKERS WITH
DISABILITIES LESS THAN MINIMUM
WAGE AND THERE IS NO FLOOR TO
IT.
IT COULD BE LIKE A DOLLAR AN
HOUR.
I'LL SEND THAT THROUGH.
I THINK SOMETHING LIKE 60
PERCENT OF SOME MINIMUM WAGE
WORKERS CURRENTLY MAKE ABOUT
THREE DOLLARS AN HOUR AND THE
REST IT'S A VERY GOOD
MESSAGING.
>> YEAH, IT'S A VERY ARCHAIC
PRACTICE THAT WAS ORIGINALLY
CAME OUT TO KEEP PEOPLE OUT
OF INSTITUTIONS.
SO ANYWAY, ABOUT 14 STATES HAVE
DONE AWAY AND UP TO THIRTY IN
TOTAL ARE TRYING TO PHASE IT
OUT IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> AND SO THIS RESOLUTION SAID
THAT WE COLLECTIVELY A CITY
COUNCIL WE CONDEMN THIS
PRACTICE.
WE DON'T CURRENTLY HAVE ANY
FOURTEEN SEE CERTIFICATE
HOLDERS.
WE HAVE NO BUSINESSES IN ARBOR
RIGHT NOW WHO HOLD ANY OF THESE
BUT THERE ARE HUNDREDS IN THE
STATE AND WE DISCOURAGE
BUSINESSES FROM GETTING THESE
AND WE ENCOURAGE THE
LEGISLATURE TO PHASE THIS OUT
BECAUSE IF YOU JUST BAN IT IT
OVERWHELM THE SYSTEM AND THEN
THERE'S ALSO THINGS LIKE ASSET
LIMIT WRITE AND SOCIAL SECURITY
DISABILITY THAT ARE OTHER
CONSTRAINTS PUT ON PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITY AND IT ADVOCATES FOR
ALSO CHANGING THOSE ASSET LIMIT
.
IT'S COMPLEX.
IT'S ALSO NOT THAT COMPLEX.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU'RE GOING TO
PAY SOMEONE THREE DOLLARS ONE
DOLLAR AN HOUR, JUST DON'T CALL
IT EMPLOYMENT SHOULD IT BE
EMPLOYMENT.
AND IF YOU'RE NOT GOING TO PAY
PEOPLE WHO KIND AT THEIR JOBS
LESS THE MINIMUM WAGE LIKE
HOW
CAN YOU IT'S JUST IT'S SO
DISCRIMINATORY IN SO MANY WAYS
SO IT PASS UNANIMOUSLY.
>> LONG STORY SHORT, I'M ANY
LET ME PAUSE FOR A SECOND.
>> ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT ANYTHING
THAT I JUST SHARED?
NO.
OK, IT'S A LOT OF WORDS SO YOU
KNOW THAT'S ACTUALLY IT FOR MY
UPDATES THERE.
THE D.A. STILL HAS PUT IN SOME
MORE ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
DOWNTOWN.
WE HAVE THE ADA COORDINATOR
GOING SO I THINK WE'RE
DEFINITELY BRINGING MORE
ATTENTION TO DISABILITY ISSUES
AND I THINK THIS ISSUE THAT WAS
RAISED TONIGHT AROUND
TRANSPORTATION IS A GOOD ONE
AND I'LL FOLLOW.
SO THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR ALL THE WORK YOU ALL
DO YOU SO MUCH LATER.
DID YOU WANT TO GO TO THE NEXT
AGENDA ITEM OR I CAN ANNOUNCE
IT IF YOU LIKE.
>> I THINK YOU MIGHT BE MUTED I
MY FOCUS DECIDED TO MEET ME
JUST RANDOMLY SO I GUESS THE
NEXT AGENDA IS ON MY OWN
BUSINESS CORRECT.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
AND I KNOW COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
YOU WANTED TO BRING UP A TOPIC
UNDER OLD BUSINESS IT I DID BUT
IT WAS ACTUALLY ANSWERED IN THE
INTERIM.
MY QUESTION WAS ABOUT LAURA
AUTI AND THE DISABILITY HIRE SO
THOSE QUESTIONS WERE ANSWERED.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, NEXT WOULD BE NEW BUSINESS
.
>> ANY NEW BUSINESS I SEE SOME
PARTICIPANTS COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE GO AHEAD.
I JUST HAD A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE IS WE'RE COMING UP ON THE
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
REHABILITATION ACT.
SO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
HOLDING ON ALL MONTH THEY'VE
BEEN HOLDING DIFFERENT SESSIONS
AND WHAT IS IT TO TWO BIG
THINGS THAT HAVE WELL, ONE BIG
THING THAT HAS COME OUT IS THAT
THROUGH HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES THERE HAVE A PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD RIGHT NOW ABOUT
BASICALLY IT'S LIKE HEALTH CARE
AND MEDICAL DISCRIMINATION AND
PRACTICES AND ACCESS TO HEALTH
CARE AND SO I'LL BE SENDING
THAT OUT ITS NEW RULES AND
REGULATIONS THAT THEY WANT TO
DO AND ALSO THIS IS KIND
OF PIGGY BACKING OFF OF THE
SOCIAL THE SOCIAL SECURITY
INCOME LIMITS RIGHT NOW.
IT WAS INTRODUCED ON SEPTEMBER
12TH AT THE BIPARTISAN
LEGISLATION OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT LEVEL IS AN ACTUAL
INCREASE IN THE THRESHOLD FOR
SSI.
WHO KNOWS IF THAT'LL ACTUALLY
GO FORWARD BEYOND COMMITTEE BUT
IT HAS BEEN INTRODUCED IN THE
HOUSE AND THE LEGISLATION FOR
THE INCREASE IN INCOME LIMITS.
IT DOESN'T GET RID OF THE
MARRIAGE PENALTY BUT IT DOES
ACTUALLY INCREASE WHAT YOU CAN
HAVE AND THERE'S SOME LANGUAGE
IN THERE ABOUT ACTUAL COST
OF LIVING INCREASES WHICH ARE
BETTER THAN THE ONES THAT BUT
WERE THERE BEFORE.
SO THAT'S IT SO MUCH.
>> COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE,
WOULD IT BE OK IF I PUT THIS
REPORT UNDER COMMUNICATION?
OH YES.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE ELSE THAT ON
THE COMMUNICATIONS I YEAH OK.
>> RIGHT I'LL PUT IT THERE.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, YOU HAVE
YOUR HAND UP.
I DO.
MINE WAS ACTUALLY STILL UNDER
OLD BUSINESS.
IT WAS WITH REGARDS TO THE GDA
THE FOURTH STREET PROJECT WHERE
THEY WERE LOOKING AT PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY STREETS.
THEY'RE REDOING THAT WHOLE AND
TURNING IT SORT OF LIKE INTO A
MORE OF MOLLIS WHAT I MEAN BY
THAT AREA IN TERMS
OF PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC AND WE
HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING IN A
WHILE AND I SEE SORT OF I HEARD
LITTLE BITS AND PIECES HERE AND
THERE AND I'M WONDERING IF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION IS
FOLLOWING THIS, LARRY, OR IS
THERE A WAY THAT OVER THE NEXT
MONTH OR SO WE COULD MAYBE GET
AN UPDATE FROM THE D.A. ON THIS
PROJECT I ASKED ABOUT BUT I
HAVEN'T HEARD A LOT ABOUT THAT
YET EITHER WAY ACTUALLY I
HAVEN'T REALLY HEARD A LOT
ABOUT THAT.
>> BUT I CAN ASK THIS EVENING
THANK YOU.
OH, AND I FORGOT ONE MORE THING
WHICH I GUESS IS A
COMMUNICATION END STARTING
SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIFTH YOU CAN
GET FOUR NEW TEST NEW COVID
TESTS FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT FOR FREE.
LET US IN BECAUSE I JUST HAVE
THE WEBSITE OUT THE KOVIK DOT
GOV SLASH TESTS SO REMEMBER
SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIFTH YOU CAN
MAKE THAT ORDER AGAIN WOULD
THERE BE ANY MORE NEW BUSINESS
ABOUT THAT.
WOULD THERE BE ANY ANY MORE
COMMUNICATION
.
AGAIN I WOULD ANNOUNCE THAT THE
THE LOCAL ADVISOR CITY COUNCIL
TO ATAY IS LOOKING AT IS
LOOKING FOR NEW MEMBERS AND TO
DO THAT CONTACT ROBERT WILLIAMS
AT THE RIGHT AT R WILLIAMS WITH
TWO LS AT THE RIGHT DOG AND YOU
CAN FILL OUT YOUR APPLICATION
AND BE A PART OF HELPING AND BE
A PART OF ADVISING 8R ABOUT
FURTHER IN SOME OF THEIR FUTURE
TRANSPORTATION ISSUES
HEARING
HEARING NONE HELIER OH GO
AHEAD.
YES IT WAS THERE EVER DO YOU
KNOW IF THERE WAS EVER ANY KIND
OF FOLLOW UP OR ANSWERS IF WHEN
I FORGOT HIS NAME THE CEO OF A
ATIYEH CAYMAN'S THAT THEY WERE
NO LONGER GOING TO DO THE SAME
DAY PARATRANSIT NO LONGER AS
FAR AS I KNOW THERE'S NO LONGER
GOING TO DO THAT.
OK, THERE'S NO IMMEDIATE PLAN
TO DO THAT NOW I THINK LARRY
THIS IS IESHA YEAH.
>> THEY'RE NO LONGER GOING TO
HAVE I'M SO SORRY.
THAT'S MY KIDS THERE ARE NO
LONGER GOING TO OFFER IT DUE TO
LIKE FUNDING AND CAPACITY AND I
THINK I HAVE SOMETHING ELSE IN
WRITING THAT HE SENT HE SENT
OVER TO US BUT YEAH AS OF NOW
THEY DON'T HAVE ANY PLANS TO
BRING IT BACK.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN YOU CAN DO IT LIKE THREE
DAYS IN ADVANCE I BELIEVE ONE
DAY IN ADVANCE.
>> OH IT'S ONE DAY IN ADVANCE
I'M GOING TO ONE DAY IN ADVANCE
.
YOU CAN'T DO IT MORE THAN THREE
DAYS IN ADVANCE THOUGH BECAUSE
NOT THAT WE'RE FINDING OUT THAT
IF PEOPLE DID IT A WEEK OR TWO
IN ADVANCE SOME PEOPLE WOULD
FORGET THAT THEY DID IT RIGHT
THOSE THREE DAYS YOU HAD TO TWO
IT THREE DAYS IN ADVANCE WITH
THREE UP TO THREE UP TO A DAY
IN ADVANCE.
>> THERE WAS ANOTHER REASON WHY
THEY COULDN'T ANY LONGER
PROVIDED IT AND IT HAD TO
ACTUALLY DO WITH ABIDING BY ADA
AND DISCRIMINATOR AND AGAINST
THOSE WHO USE WHEELCHAIRS.
IT'S JUST COMING BACK TO ME BUT
I NEED TO I DON'T WANT TO
INACCURATELY ACCURATELY SPEAK
ON BEHALF OF EIGHT SO I'LL LOOK
THROUGH MY NOTES
.
I HAVE NO OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
I WOULD REQUEST A MOTION TO
.
ADJOURN.
I WOULD REQUEST A MOTION TO
>> I MOVED UP.
ADJOURN.
I'LL STILL GO AHEAD.
>> I MOVED UP.
I HEARD SOMEBODY SAY SOMETHING
I'LL STILL GO AHEAD.
SO JUST BEFORE WE DO THAT WHO
I HEARD SOMEBODY SAY SOMETHING
SAID WHAT?
SO JUST BEFORE WE DO THAT WHO
>> MATTHEW MAKES THE MOTION TO
SAID WHAT?
ADJOURN?
>> MATTHEW MAKES THE MOTION TO
OH NO, NO, SAID LARRY SOMEBODY
ADJOURN?
SAID LARRY.
OH NO, NO, SAID LARRY SOMEBODY
SO I WAS WONDERING IF THEY
SAID LARRY.
WANTED ME TO STOP THE NO.
SO I WAS WONDERING IF THEY
>> I SAID I'LL SECOND THE
WANTED ME TO STOP THE NO.
MOTION OK I GUESS I GUESS I'M
>> I SAID I'LL SECOND THE
GOOD THEN.
MOTION OK I GUESS I GUESS I'M
>> SO ALL IN FAVOR
GOOD THEN.
OF ADJOURNMENT THEN I RAISE
>> SO ALL IN FAVOR
YOUR HAND I I I I RIGHT SEE YOU
OF ADJOURNMENT THEN I RAISE
GUYS THAT'S NOT BAD